living a hectic life , people are caught up in the flow of money and fame , which is make them foget the true value of life .
health plays an incredible role of life , having a good health , we get all ; .
loosing health , it means loosing all .
a good health is including physical health and mental health .
when your body is healthy , it means the ability of the muscles to be strong , push , pull , lift .
thus doing the work of limbs comfortably like carrying , controlling machines , use tools .
besides , a person has a good health , he will have a lucid head .
they focus on working , studying , have a good memory and high energy .
how to have a good health ?
it ’ s a question that has lasted for thousands of years since people became aware .
however , until now , not everyone know the proper method to stay healthy .
the father of hippocrates also said , let food be your medicine , there is no valuable and effective medicine by choosing carefully , smartly the foods that you and your family daily consumption .
besides that , we should not be subjective to the effects that spiritual joys bring to health .
when you are optimistic , happy , positive thinking , our body will release healthy hormones , even the hormones secreted when you are happy can also actively support in treating the disease .
to sum up , health is the most important , invaluable asset .
money , material .
will help each individual ’ s life become more prosperous and full but does not mean it will guarantee you a good health .
marketing and communication activities include all the activities to discover the need of the customers and find the ways to meet that demand effectively .
from market , many researches set up on purpose looking for potential customers .
creating advertising messages that can connect with customers , designating the appropriate communication channels to convey the brand ’ s message .
are all accountable for marketing .
marketing communication has evolved over the years , mainly due to changes coming from purchasers that affect businesses .
marketing concepts have been adapted more to suit current needs .
digital marketing has created great penetration for the e-commerce industry .
with the origination of the key of marketing concepts , the focus on business shifted from hard sales to identify what the customer needs .
making exactly decisions to demand and develop the long-term with customer relationships .
long by serving their changing needs .
marketing concepts lead to the establishment of a separated marketing department within companies .
today , many companies have restructured them into marketing companies .
where each employee contributes the satisfaction to the customer , and regardless of whether or not they are marketers .
the latest marketing concepts are entirely dependent on the researches on the market that helps identify segments , scales , target markets and customer ’ s need .
then , using the correct marketing mix , marketing groups make decisions that lead to customer ’ s satisfaction .
the various forms of marketing will make the consumer market more attractive .
if the economy is so strong , it will grow up under these powerful support tools .
the 45th president of the united states of america – donald trump , he beaten off one of the former president ’ s wife named hilary clinton and has taken office on january 20 , 2017 .
actually , he has already risen to fame as a business magnate and tv personality far before he moves to live in the white house .
however , unlike other previous ones , this president has been frequently criticized and hit the headlines .
as he took up office , trump immediately managed to hobble obamacare – one of the biggest achievements of his previous , president obama .
the action made public opinion break out , and people not only in the usa but also in the world called him the cruel guy .
obamacare was an act that make health insurance available for us citizens , especially the poor , and its official name of the law is the affordable care act .
however , president trump considered this act completely the opposite with one of important american values , independence , which means that the america , regardless of the rich of the poor , must be self-reliant and depends on no one to feed and finance them .
as a result , he got rid of this law and was strongly censured .
recently , president donald trump has grabbed the headlines of many magazines regardless inside or outside the usa for throwing a grenade triggering the commercial war between his nation and china .
the press acknowledged that he is hobbling china because this nation ’ s economy is getting bigger and might gulp his usa down in a near future .
however , it is true that this trade war is the economic sanctions after mischief and tricks china did not only with the business but also the politics of america .
it is not wrong for people to say that he is evil , but he just does the right things and protects the americans .
kim jong un is the supreme leader of north korea who has been in power since 2011 .
although he has been well-known recently , his life is still a mystery to the world .
he was born in the early 1980s to singer ko young hee and north korea dictator kim jong il , and his grandfather was kim il sung – founder of the kim dynasty .
though kim jong un had an elder brother and half-brother , his father still chose him as his successor .
after his father ’ s death in 2011 , kim ascended to power .
unlike other presidents , kim has a harsh and fierce policy of governance and leadership .
it is said that the leader of north korea – kim jong un is extremely cruel , dangerous but not crazy .
his pursuit of nuclear weapons , incendiary rhetoric and odd appearance prove to that saying .
kim instructs his guys to create a very strong advanced and dangerous nuclear weapons that threaten the strongest nation in terms of military – the united states , and president trump has to scratch his head over the nuclear weapon agreement with the two in order to persuade him uninstalling all of the booms .
this is the reason why we have the us – north korean singapore and hanoi summit .
not only the military system is focused , but also all areas of daily life in north korea which are strictly controlled by kim ’ s regime is the topic of many discussions .
the democratic people ’ s republic of korea is home to more than 24 million people living under a harsh form of communist rule .
people have to ask permission to travel around and it is difficult for visitors to enter the country .
all tvs and radios are tuned to state channels and people are caught listening to foreign broadcasts face harsh punishments .
these controls make most north koreans have little or even no idea of the outside world , and it is seemed that these citizens are trapped in caged .
the world , especially mr. trump of the us are doing their best to make at least small changes to this country and help its people have chance to meet the outside .
facebook is one of the most popular and biggest social media globally that most of the people worldwide use and access everyday .
it provide us with smart and convenient features that help us connect to the outside world without going anywhere but stay at home or office only ; .
morever , people nowadays can work and study or go shopping online at home via facebook .
however , despite these brilliant features , it is argued that facebook also has its own psychological costs that are bad for the human being ’ s mental health .
to be more specific concerning the side effects of the social medium – facebook , firstly , it can become addictive and causes intense passivity and weak communication .
besides society ’ s most common addictive substances like coffee , cigarettes , and alcohol , it is obviously that facebook – a cyber phenomenon in the world – has been becoming a serious addiction got by people in all ages .
in fact , friends , families , colleagues and partners nowadays are no longer happy and excited in engaging a face-to-face conversation .
they even feel disconcerted because of having nothing to say with each other .
intepreting for this strange and popular situation , facebook is one of the reason that people have been blaming on .
myriad people daily spend hours to browse facebook , in other words , they are becoming phone heads or phone addicts .
furthermore , the more people use facebook , the more jealousy they get .
it is obvious that people are naturally inclined to engage in social comparison .
for more details , with just a glance at the new feeds , people can updates from their social cycles ; .
when people see someone who has a happier or more successful life then theirs , such as a new fancy car or an expensive beautiful dress , not only can facebook make them feel like they are not sharing in their friends ’ s happiness and success , but it can also make them feel envious of their friends ’ s wonderful life .
as these negative social comparisons happen and accumulate day in day out , human being will definitely get extremely depressed and anxious leading to the antisocial and autism syndromes that can cause a lot of serious consequences , especially the suicide .
facebook can be awesomely good for humankind if they exploit it properly , and it can also precipitate extremely serious and unpredictable consequences if people excessively abuse and improperly employ it .
we all know that natural disasters happen all over the world , and they can be utterly devastating for people ’ s lives and the environments we live in .
there are many different natural causes leading to natural disasters , and being aware of these causes enables us to be better prepared when they do arrive .
earthquakes are another common natural disaster on the list that can cause many fatalities .
earthquakes are caused by the movements of the plates in the earth ’ s crust .
these plates do not always move smoothly and can get stuck , and then cause a build-up of pressure – the reason why earthquake occur .
in addition to this , an earthquake under the water can also cause a tsunami by pushing large volumes of water to the surface causing great waves .
tsunamis can also be caused by underwater volcanic eruptions which are another natural disaster caused by magma escaping from inside the earth .
an explosion takes place , releasing the magma from a confined space , and that is why huge quantities of gas and dust are always released during a volcanic eruption .
inside of the volcano , the magma travels up and then pours out over the surrounding area as lava .
last but not least , one of the most common natural disasters that we commonly forgot is wildfires .
they take place in many different countries all over the world , particularly during the summertime , and can be caused by a range of different reasons .
some of the things starting the wildfires can be totally natural , while others can be manmade , but the speed they spread is entirely down to nature .
there are two main natural causes of wildfires which are the sun ’ s heat and lightning strikes .
other reasons are campfires , smoking , fireworks and many other things caused by humans .
the reasons why they spread so quickly are prolonged hot , dry weather , where the vegetation dries out , which is why they often take place in woodland .
a huge portion of my early childhood memories is rather patchy and fuzzy where i barely recall the names and faces of my kindergarten teachers or classmates .
but the only thing that still stayed on with me from that period was the stories by enid blyton .
i could proudly say that i grew up with blyton ’ s characters who accompanied me from my adolescence years well into my mid-elementary school years because her stories had varying levels of difficulty that catered to a wide group of readers .
for myself , this author opened up my young impressionable mind to different worlds , worlds that were magical and also culturally different .
for example , boarding schools are not common options in singapore because for a tiny island like ours , my elementary school was only a 15-minute walk away from home .
yet through the malory towers series , i knew more about how other children lived in other areas of the world .
as compared to watching cartoon , her stories left children much more room for imagination and creative thinking .
i conjured images about how moon-face and saucepan man from the faraway tree series might look like and what color would an elf ’ s clothes be .
in my mind , elves were never as raggedy as dobby in harry potter or as suave as legolas in lord of the rings .
instead , they were diminutive in stature , slender with sharp ears and friendly almond eyes wearing grey clothes .
after more than a decade of outgrowing blyton ’ s books , i am deeply and truely impressed that she was able to articulate thoughts suitable for a child .
being an author or writer , it is imperative to write in a way clearly understood by the readers .
as such , children authors need to simplify their thoughts and articulate using grammar and vocabulary appropriate for different age groups .
as an adult , one could imagine the difficulties to be a children ’ s author , much less a successful and timeless one for requires us to stop thinking like a grown-up and adopt the children ’ s psyche .
the earth is very old .
it has changed often during its long life , and it is still changing .
millions of years ago , when dinosaurs like tyrannosaurus rex were alive , the earth was much warmer .
there was very little ice on the land or on the sea , even in the very north or the very south of the world .
and the sea was much higher than it is today .
there have been many changes since that time , sometimes to a warmer climate , sometimes to a colder one .
about 20,000 years ago , for example , a time called an ice age began .
there was ice over much of the world , and it was 3 kilometres deep over much of north america and europe .
and the sea was not as high as it is today .
our climate has changed many times , and it will change again .
but now , for the very first time , people are changing the climate .
in the year 1900 , the earth was 0 .
7 c colder than it was in 2000 , just one hundred years later .
this change did not happen because of the earth ’ s orbit – it happened because of us .
some people think that this is a small change .
but think about this .
a change of just 5 to 7 c can start or finish an ice age .
can the climate change like this ?
scientists think that it can – but not as quickly as this .
scientists do not always agree .
some think that the climate is changing a lot , and some think that it is changing a little .
some think that it will change quickly , and some slowly .
but all scientists agree that climate change is happening .
the important question is this : how dangerous will the change be ?
al gore , who worked next to president clinton of the usa between 1993 and 2001 , thinks that the change will be dangerous .
in his film an inconvenient truth , al gore describes how the earth ’ s climate has changed .
he has talked about the dangers of climate change for more than twenty years , but is he right ?
is climate change a dangerous problem ?
must we do something about it ?
and what can we do ?
one out of every two marriages nowadays ends in divorce and lots of divorcing families include children .
parents who are obtaining a divorce are usually worried about the impact the divorce will have on their children .
during this difficult period , parents may be absorbed with their own problems , but continue to be the most important people in their children ’ s lives .
while parents may be ravaged or relieved by the divorce , children are constantly frightened and confused by the threat to their security .
some parents feel so overwhelmed or hurt by the divorce that they may turn to the child for direction or comfort .
divorce could be misinterpreted by children unless parents tell them what is happening , how they are involved and not involved , and what will happen to them .
talking to children about a divorce is difficult .
the following tips can help both the young and the old with the challenge and stress of these conversations : don ’ t keep it a secret or wait until the last minute .
tell your child together with your spouse .
keep things simple and straight-forward .
inform them the divorce is not their fault .
admit that this will be upsetting and sad for everyone .
reassure your child that you both still love them and will be their parents forever .
do not discuss each other ’ s faults or problems with the child .
children will do best if they know that their mother and father will still be their parents and remain involved with them even though the marriage is ending and the parents won ’ t live together .
pressure on a child to choose sides or long custody disputes can be particularly harmful for the youngster and can add to the damage of the divorce .
research indicates that children do best when parents can cooperate on behalf of the child .
parents ’ ongoing commitment to the child ’ s well-being is vital .
if a child shows signs of distress , the family doctor or pediatrician can refer the parents to a child and adolescent psychiatrist for evaluation and treatment .
in addition , the child and adolescent psychiatrist can meet with the parents to help them learn how to make the strain of the divorce easier on the entire family .
psychotherapy for the children of a divorce , and the divorcing parents , can be helpful .
vietnam is a tropical country located in southeast asia – the center of the world sea-route .
the tropical monsoon climate gives vietnam resource-rich biological diversity .
besides , vietnam has s shape with 3620 kilometers of the coast with abundant tourism and seafood potentialities .
vietnam has a long-lasting history with over four thousand years through the ups and downs of history and politics .
there are 54 ethnic groups in total and the kinh is the largest one .
all the ethnic groups all over the country live peacefully under a common roof – vietnam .
vietnam is a country with special cultures , one of which is the tet holiday .
from the first dynasty of vietnam ( the hung king dynasty ) , our ancestors celebrated tet holiday every year .
tet is the biggest holiday in vietnam , which is held according to the lunar calendar .
vietnamese people are friendly , intelligent , hard-working and thirsty for moving up .
you might think that vietnam is a small country , but we never step back .
far back in history , we proved it .
throughout the ups and downs of history , we have defeated a lot of strong enemies from different lands .
in the wartime , both the french and the usa army became our defeaters .
nowadays , we are building our country to become richer , more beautiful as the strong wish from mr. ho chi minh .
the mooncake is a traditional chinese pastry which is enjoyed during the annual mid-autumn festival by many people around the world .
the name mooncake comes from this festival , since families gather to celebrate this lunar festival and watch the full moon .
mooncakes are also an iconic chinese dessert with a colorful history dating back thousands of years .
mooncakes are baked into round shapes , but varies in sizes and the varied ingredients based on different areas ’ interpretation .
it is commonly made with a thin crust , thick sweet filling from lotus seed paste , and contains two yolks from salted duck eggs .
the round duck egg yolks perform the full moon .
the top layer of the mooncake includes symbols of the moon festival imprinted on them or is also decorated to have good luck characters .
the mid-autumn festival is considered as the second most important holiday in china after the lunar new year .
the annual festival is held on the 15th day of the 8th month on the lunar calendar .
the origins of this festival dates back to shang dynasty ( 1600 – 1046 bce ) where farmers celebrate the harvest of the crops and express thanks to the mountain gods .
the mooncake became the offering as the public worshiped the moon during every autumn ’ s lunar .
there are also a great number of legends and folktales associated with the origins of moon cakes which have circulated .
another importance is the shape of the moon as well as mooncake .
thus , the round mooncake is not only a delicacy and dessert enjoyed , but it emphasizes the special importance that chinese people attach to family reunion .
police is not just the principle executor of the laws but also the primary keeper of peace and order .
its functions include enforcing the laws , enacted by the legislature as well as the decisions of the court , besides , of course , preventing crime .
police officers have a lot of authority in society and they are very important people for enforcing the law and ensuring the safety .
police officer is an official employee of the police force .
`` police officers help to prevent crime and disorder , and uphold the law .
a decision to become a police officer is not an easy one .
not only because it involves a lot of risky and dangerous situations , but because it puts a great responsibility on you .
being a police officer is not just a job , even though you have salary .
you definitely have to think hard before you take a decision .
it ’ s well known that many young people ’ s police officer ’ s carriers end soon after they get started .
`` when young men and women begin their law enforcement careers as police officers , they have no idea just how many pitfalls lay before them . too many new police officers listen to bad advice , and they develop bad working habits .
moreover , to become a police officer you have to meet a number of essentially important requirements which are , for example , to be physically available for those kinds of activities that being a police force employee must perform .
all your abilities and skills are thoroughly checked , since your level of competence and the quality of your performance will probably result in human life rescuing .
if thinking about future prospects , employment of police is expected to increase about as fast as the average for all occupations through 2020 . this is because people are concerned about crime and safety .
and probably , that ’ s a change for the better .
the summer before my junior year in high school , my family and i took a trip to a completely new world .
being from a small town , i had never really been exposed to the elements of a large city such as new york city .
my trip there was like discovering an entirely new way of life that i had only heard stories of previously .
for about the tenth time the morning of the flight , i checked my room to make sure i didn ’ t leave anything essential behind .
my stomach was doing flips as we arrived at the airport and made our way to the gate .
it didn ’ t get much better than this : i watched through the window as the runway zoomed by and the buildings and houses became smaller and smaller as the plane gained altitude .
an exhilarating feeling overcame me as i realized that i would soon be in one of the most amazing cities of the united states .
as we stood waiting for a taxi outside of the airport , it was immediately apparent to me that new york city was not the same as new caney , texas .
it seemed like everyone there was in a hurry to get to another place .
the loud and constant sound of cars honking was heard throughout the entire trip .
as soon as a car seemed to be going slower than the person behind him liked , he would hear the horn of that car to let him know that he was apparently holding everybody else up !
when we found our hotel in times square , i noticed that it wasn ’ t just the cars that were in a hurry .
everyone in the streets was walking at a brisk pace that indicated a rush to be somewhere .
the transportation of the city was also far different than anything that i had ever been exposed to .
in my little town , a bike , a car , or even walking was perfectly suitable for getting around town , but in this foreign land , there were many more ways for one to get to another destination .
everywhere you looked , there were people hailing taxis , waiting on buses , rushing underground to the subway stations , walking frantically , or desperately trying to maneuver their own cars through the busy streets .
just standing and watching the many people rushing their own separate ways was an interesting observation .
in addition to the people and transportation , the buildings were also an incredible sight .
each street was crammed with buildings that were built side by side with no room in between them , and a number of skyscrapers were present throughout the city as well .
i was awestruck again as we went inside some of these buildings such as the empire state building and made our way towards the top .
standing outside of one of the top stories of the empire state building was awesome .
i could hold the entire city in my hand from this view .
i could even see ellis island a distance away from there .
the stores were also large compared to the ones of my little town .
a small retail store in new caney would be a huge store that took up an entire building in new york .
this would make it seem logical that the prices of everything in new york were almost triple those back home .
it was as if the little peaceful neighborhood where i lived was magnified by 100 to make up the wonder city of new york .
my visit to new york city was a life changing experience .
for the first time in my life , i was exposed to a little taste of what the real world is like .
the incredible modes of transportation , the huge skyscrapers , and all of the thousands of people made me anxious to grow up and perhaps move to an incredible city such as this one .
either way , my first trip to new york was one of the most incredible experiences of my life , one i will always treasure .
familyi can not imagine living my life without my family by my side .
family is very important and valuable to me and is something that should never be taken for granted .
without my family , a large part of my life and culture would be missing .
whether it ’ s my grandparent , my two sisters , my mom , or my dad , i know i can always count on someone to help me feel better .
in fact , i think that this is probably the most important thing that my family has taught me ; .
a family is made up of people who you can trust and who you can count on .
too many times today , we read in the papers about families where parents abuse their children , verbally and physically .
what these parents don ’ t realize is that they are either beginning or involving themselves in a vicious circle of hate in families .
when parents abuse their children , they are telling their children that that is the way to raise children , and this is what their children learn .
i was lucky , i have learned differently , because my family cares about me , and i care about them .
in this world of doubt , insecurity , and fear , my family is always there for me , holding their arms open to me with love .
on the first day of first grade , i didn ’ t want to go to school , i had butterflies in my stomach and i found it difficult to walk because i was so nervous .
the only reason that i finally went into the classroom is because my mom walked in with me , and promised me that as soon as school was out , she ’ d be there waiting for me , ready to bring me back to where i felt most comfortable , my family .
luckily , i ’ m a little more grown up now ; .
i can go into school by myself , and in a couple of years , when i go away to college , i ’ ll really have to go to school by myself .
of course i know i ’ ll make friends , but none of them will mean as much to me as my family .
it seems like every parent wants their kid to grow up to be a doctor .
but , maybe you really want to !
being a doctor is all about helping sick people get healthy , and if this sounds like something you want to do , then find out what it takes to follow your dream !
as you know , if you have the flu , you go see the doctor .
if you break your leg from falling down the stairs , you go see the doctor .
if you get sick with something serious like mono or the measles , you go see the doctor .
as you can see , medical doctors do a lot more then wear white coats and carry around stethoscopes .
they help sick people by figuring out what ’ s wrong with them and giving them the right medicine to get better .
forget superman or spider-man or any of those other superheroes – doctors are the real heroes cuz they ’ re the ones who save people ’ s lives !
nothing is more rewarding than that .
most doctors may have to work on evenings and weekends too , and be on call .
that means you have to wear a pager 24 per 7 and if you get paged , you ’ ll have to go into work , even if it ’ s your birthday or a holiday , cuz a sick person needs your help .
oh , and that ’ s another downside – you ’ re always around sick people , which can be pretty depressing .
during my visit to da lat last year , i quickly realised why da lat was often referred to as a small version of the netherlands .
the narrow streets there were always filled with blossoming and colorful flowers .
as the locals were preparing for the flower festival , most of the streets were decorated with umbrella inflorescences made from umbrellas and a lot of bright lights .
these umbrella inflorescences would be hung next to each other at varying heights ranging from 7 to 9 meters .
in the day time , these umbrellas looked like flowers and at night .
they glowed like splendid flower lanterns .
both sides of the street had small vendor booths with coffee , tea , wine and street drawings for tourists to enjoy .
everyday , people would enjoy a street parade with thousands of decorated flowers on various items .
on a vehicle , dancers would wear floral dresses and throw petals to nearby passengers .
leisurely walking down the street while enjoying all of the colors and smells that thousands of flowers shared with me was my daily activity while i was in da lat .
but if you were looking for something more exciting , there were also dozens of exhibitions and trade shows full of flowers , food and drinks , all available for you to explore and enjoy .
i chose to visit the flowers market and food by flowers festival .
food made from flowers in da lat was not only unique in taste but also was presented in magnificent ways .
i didn ’ t know that there were so many edible flowers that tasted so great .
i was amazed at how these skillful chefs were able to preserve the original scents and flavors of the flowers after cooking .
every dish looked like a little masterpiece .
da lat was also a perfect place for couples on their honeymoon vacation .
they could visit the flower villages in ha dong , thai phien or van thanh , each village would bring them an unique experience .
ha dong flower villages still preserved the traditional method of gardening from seedlings with natural fertilizing and harvesting .
while thai phien flower village looked like a small industrial zone with sparkling glass houses .
during honeymoon vacation , they could also visit the house of love , a special flower garden in the love valley as well as take a trip to the immortal flower hill in lament lake or gold flower hill in golden valley .
the temperature in da lat was always around 20 degrees celsius and the weather was often foggy .
the subtle scent of thousands of flowers created a beautiful atmosphere for honeymooners .
colorful paintings with hundreds of blossoms throughout the area created a romantic look that was indescribable .
the da lat flower festival closing ceremony was situated next to xuan huong lake .
there were thousands of visitors that participated in an exciting street dance with nearly 4000 liters of wine served while i was there .
the wine festival was a feast specially designed to say good-bye to visitors traveling to da lat for the flower festival in this mountainous region of vietnam .
it was an experience i would never forget .
many years ago , when i was a little child , i admired adventures .
i think that since i breathed in for the first time and felt the ground underneath my feet , when for the very first time i looked at the night sky and its numerous eyes , i wished to live the life of an adventurer .
to explore the jungles , to stride the dessert , to wander through the lost cities and to dive into the deep darkness of the ocean i find extremely exciting .
my wish is to be an adventurer .
to be an adventurer you need some qualities .
you need to know how to get out of some risky and dangerous situations .
you need to know how to survive .
it would also be suggested to know how to sail , because a good sailor is a good adventurer .
what is more , the most epic adventures are found on the sea .
the best thing about going on an adventure is that it is really exciting , filled with thrill and danger .
and , i know it is some kind of cliche , but danger is my middle name .
another good thing about adventure is the sights you see , the beautiful forests , and the castles .
so many wonderful castles that have numerous ancient tales about knights and dragons .
but like every human has his disadvantages , going on adventures has its bad sides too .
in all the danger and thrill , many have lost their lives .
and so ‘ through the darkness and night a beam of light appears and the dovahkiin comes , ’ as the legend says .
one day , a man shall appear and repel all the evil , he will kill all the foes of his land .
but more importantly , he will win , he will conquer all the obstacles and get to his goal .
and , by following his steps , i will become an adventurer for sure .
my mother .
do you have someone who is great , spends time with you , cares for you , and is an important person ?
well , i do !
she has black hair , brown eyes , and a caring touch .
that ’ s my mom .
my mom talks to me about many things .
one of the things she talks to me about is what will happen when i grow up .
she tells me what to do in case of an emergency .
and one day i had a really bad day with my friends , and she told me what to do about it .
my mom and i spend a lot of time together .
we play games , bake cookies , make necklaces , and draw doodle tricks .
but our favorite thing to do is read .
our favorite book is if you give a mouse a cookie .
mom takes me shopping at the mall .
we buy toys and clothes , and we eat at the café .
we usually get chinese food or go to a mcdonald ’ s restaurant .
when we ride the escalator , my mom pretends to fall back and says , my shoestring ’ s stuck ! .
my mom always laughs , and when she laughs she sounds like a hyena gone crazy !
she doesn ’ t laugh every day , but when she does , it ’ s hilarious , and i have to laugh , too !
my mom is the greatest .
i love how she jokes around .
she is always fun no matter what .
she gives me great advice .
my mom is more than a mom , she is like my best friend !
my hobby is collecting books .
i collect books whenever i have more need for some books .
i collect many kinds of books such a love story books or textbooks i am learning at school , you know , maths , history , geography , biology .
and books about nature .
i buy books from a bookshop near my house , and some other stores .
i also get books from my friends .
i collect books because i would like to learn from books .
they help me broaden my knowledge .
in the future , i try to make my collection larger .
i would open a book store of my own .
this essay on book collecting is intended for potential book collectors and neophytes to this field of collecting and it will likely prove boring to those who are established book collectors and probably to some who are not .
our intention is to acquaint you with this interesting hobby , to explain the terminology or jargon , and to dispel a few myths or misconceptions .
you can collect in any of a mind-boggling number of areas — this hobby has more variety within it than any other collecting field we can imagine .
you can collect your favorite author .
an author you always wanted-to-read , but- never-had-the-time .
a subject about which you wish to learn more — the american indian , or the american indian of the 19th century , or the blackfoot tribe or the agriculture of the algonquins — you can collect recent in-print books , books from the 19th century , books from the first century of printing , paperback books , pulp magazines , fine leather bindings , historic newspapers , pamphlets from the period of the american revolution or the french revolution or vietnam , books printed on mission presses in the pacific , or even books about book collecting !
book collecting is expensive !
not true !
you can spend as little or as much as you are able and willing to spend on your collection .
some collectors purchase only new in-print books , others buy only at yard sales and library book sales , others visit their neighborhood used book shop , others order only from mail order antiquarian book catalogs , and many are now buying books on the world wide web .
if you are very limited in discretionary funding or very frugal , you could even hold yourself to a maximum of $ 1.00 ( us or the equivalent ) per volume by buying at flea markets and yard sales and slowly build an interesting and potentially valuable collection .
hoi an is an ancient town down the thu bon river , on the coastal plain of quang nam province , for about 30 km south of da nang city .
hoi an used to be known as the international market with many different names such as lam ap , faifo , hoai pho and hoi an is the most common one now .
what is special about hoi an is that this little port town is in an incredible state of preservation .
it includes some of the most densely-concentrated sights in viet nam with its old streets which are bordered with ancient houses and assembly halls , its pagodas , temples , ancient wells and tombs .
in total , there are more than a thousand places of interest .
the architecture in hoi an is characterized by a harmonious blend of vietnamese , chinese and japanese culture .
after many centuries , hoi an is still respectful of its traditions , folk festivals , beliefs and of its sophisticated culinary art .
located in a quiet environment , hoi an is surrounded by peaceful villages famous for crafts such as carpentry , bronze making , ceramic .
researchers said that most of the buildings in hoi an underwent restoration at the beginning of the 19th century , even if some of them might be constructed long time ago .
the ancient architecture is shown most clearly in the ancient town that is located in minh an ward .
it covers about 2 square kilometers and almost of all famous relics in hoi an are gathered here .
the streets are very short and narrow , having a winding , crossing as the chessboard style .
the topography of the ancient town tilt gradually from north to south .
the buildings in the old town are built mostly with traditional materials such as .
brick , wood and no more than two floors .
the trace of time is able to find not only on the architectural design of each building but also everywhere like .
on the yin-yang roof tiles covered with moss and plants .
the old gray mold walls .
the pictures carved on a strange animal , or describing an old story .
having inherited a multi-cultural architecture which is so varied and sophisticated , hoi an must have attracted numerous and talented workers in carpentry , ceramics , and woodcarving from china , japan and other regions of viet nam .
for centuries , hoi an had developed into a melting pot of various nationalities who came to the area , and brought along their own cultures .
accordingly , hoi an features the co-existence of indigenous customs and habits and those imported by foreign settlers .
essay on my trip to nha trang citymy first visit to nha trang , a coastal city in vietnam , was three years ago .
it was a pleasant and memorable trip .
nha trang , the capital of khanh hoa province , has one of the most popular municipal beaches in all of vietnam .
in nha trang , nature beauties are so attractive .
waves crashing onto the cliffs .
the soft sigh of the sea breeze .
clean white sands and turquoise waters .
it all makes for a marvelous landscapes .
it ’ s no accident that nha trang is often compared to a mediterranean city .
during my visit to nha trang , i used to get up early each morning to stroll along the beach – a chance of breathing in the fresh sea air and enjoy the sunrise across the water .
one attraction that captivated me three years ago and still it does is the collection of small offshore islands .
hon tre is the largest among the islands , and monkey island is , as the name suggests , the home of hundreds of wild monkeys .
yen island is known for its swifts ’ nests .
tri nguyen island is the location of an outdoor aquarium housing more than 400 species of fish , crustaceans and other marine life .
that trip , i spent the whole day roaming the ponaga cham towers .
these ancient hindu temples were built from the 7th to 12th century .
many of the sandstone statues from this time still remain among the red brick towers , typical of cham architecture .
nha trang is the city in harmony .
its fine weather , favorite position and friendly people bring it a certain balance .
nha trang is a perfect tourist destination .
as i left , i was reminded of one reason i like the place so much .
i hope to have chance to come back .
i love listening to music , but i am not like other people who often listen to the music that is popular at a time .
the part of music that attracts me is the attitude of the composers and the tone , because the songs represent the writers ’ mood and feeling .
through the songs people can feel what the composers try to express , so i often listen to jazz , rock , and r & b .
these three types of music contain different languages but they are all my favorite music styles .
when i really want to relax my body , or to do the exercises at home i will listen to jazz music .
i do not have the exact time to do exercises , i just play it to release my body .
jazz music is much faster and more relaxing than pop music .
it makes me want to dance , to do any kind of motion to let go of my body while the music is on .
sometimes i prefer to do it on my bed .
it is healthy for my body .
my second favorite music style is rock , which i listen to when i am in a bad mood or lonely .
rock is very different from jazz because rock is quite noisy and contains a lot of screaming .
but the tone of the songs is like magic that can flush all my unhappiness , even though those things are still right there , but at the moment i can feel i have strength to solve problems , and i am not scared of anything anymore .
when i have something to face or have to make a choice , i always listen to rock music , let the music go through my mind so that i can think deeper and deeper .
i often just sit on the chair and do nothing .
this happened when i am quite tired or sleepy .
for example , sitting on the mrt or buses , i do not think or do anything .
i do not like to be disturbed by others , i want to have my own space .
and r & b music can help me get away from my busy life and clean up my soul .
the three types of music have different functions for me , however , they all bring me happiness and help me get through difficult time .
hobby is the favourite work or choice which borns spontaneously from inside of a person .
it is very natural and unbiased from external influence .
it attracts us with such an intensity as weleave other more important tasks .
it make us obsessive to become besotted towards our hobby .
hobby is that which provide peace , happiness and ultimate satisfaction in our life .
hobbyists should be careful to do their hobby related work in their leisure time only .
otherwise it would be a murderous to darken one ’ s fate .
therefore my suggestion is thatone must be able to judge the value of time in various phases of life .
it has been noticed that a student destroyed his carrier by devoting fully on his hobby of guitar playing .
our like and dislike don ’ treflect our strength or weakness .
there must be a fine balance between our lifestyle and performance .
music listening is my hobby .
music is a common name that has encapsulated various kind of songs e.g .
patriotic song , religious , classical music .
the list is endless .
my mother says , when i was at the age of seven years , i was more interested to listen songs .
also i showed reflection of singing ability in those days .
still at this age it fits to my nature .
i love to listen songs because i feel a sense of accomplishment .
i can isolate myself from the crowd and i can pass my time with full entertainment .
it gives me new energy .
it reduces my stresses .
while listening music , i feel out of world .
i seldom hesitate to spend for my hobby .
in past time it was a dream to have a good quality music system for me .
on that time l prmished myself to buy a costly music system when i would get money .
almighty listened my wish and now i am blessed with such a level of earning that i can buy any music system to quench thirst of my hobby .
before tet , people should return all the things that they have borrowed from others and pay all the debts they owed .
it is believed that people should never start a new year with debts and borrowed things .
otherwise in that year people would be stuck with debts .
on the first day of tet , adults ( those who have already got married and have income ) are supposed to prepare some lucky money to give the children and kids when visiting other ’ s homes as a symbol of luck for the coming new year .
people are also supposed to say best wishes to others .
these activities are done with the expectation that luck and good things are brought to everyone .
gift-exchanging is another common custom during tet holiday , which is used mostly in business .
the process of giving and receiving gifts help to enhance the relationships between clients and firms .
the popular presents are cookies , chocolates , fruit baskets , wine , soft drinks or other kinds of treats .
usually , people can buy a pack of gifts in the shops which includes many different kinds of food .
if you have a vietnamese business partner , take this opportunity to enhance the relationships .
tet is a special occasion that people wear new and beautiful outfits .
the streets during tet is full with colorful dresses , ao dai and other costumes .
it is thought that colorful bright colors like red , yellow or blue can bring good luck and prosperity to people for the upcoming year .
another essential element of tet is smiles .
a smile can make everything seem more relaxing and enhance relationship among people .
a smile can bring joy and happiness to you as well as people around you for the whole year also .
during this tet , people refrain themselves from getting angry or depressed and put an instant smile on their faces , hoping for a happy new year .
technology is now a big part of our society and our predictable future .
there is little room for people who wish to live without technology , and luckily , it is still advancing at a rate that has helped stave off stagnation .
i believe that for every advantage that technology brings us , it also brings us a disadvantage at the same time .
smartphones enable people to stay in touch , even over long distances , and they are relatively safe and reliable to use .
there are devices that people can use to communicate with plus at the other end of the planet and getting and keeping in touch with other people is very easy .
the disadvantages of smartphone is that it means people no longer need to meet in person as much , and interpersonal relationships are suffering worldwide because people are communicating through a small handheld device .
a lot of people have smartphones and they use them almost semi-continuously , including in public settings when they could be making new friends , finding new lovers , and interacting with their current friends .
the advantages of the internet are that people can communicate over vast distances and can gain access to information and get answers to their questions very quickly .
the disadvantage is that the internet isn ’ t moderated in the way that people think and lots of it is filled with misinformation and outright lies .
even brand-named websites which have a lot of trust are not accountable for what appears on their own websites .
even respected and branded news sites have stories that have passed through many people ’ s hands and originally started as lies with zero accountability throughout the dissemination process .
in conclusion , technology brings about such a lot of advantages .
however , it ’ s people ’ s duty to use it in an appropriate way to make it beneficial .
the job that i have is also the same as the job that i have always wanted to have .
i ’ m an english teacher , and i also run a website called dailystep .
com , so that i can teach english to many more people than i could teach in one classroom .
different aspects of my job involve different skills .
when it comes to teaching , the job involves , of course , teaching students for general and business english , and so on .
this requires a detailed knowledge of grammar , syntax , business skills such as presentations and meetings and more .
the website side involves other skills , many of which i have had to acquire as i went along .
i have to write dialogues for lessons , produce blogs , answer emails , record audio files , maintain the content on the website , and liaise with technical developers on website improvements i have suggested .
of course , i also have to deal with day to day problems as they arise .
i chose the job of english teacher after several years working as a researcher and journalist , as english is my first love and my passion .
i really enjoy explaining things in a concise and clear way too .
when i was a child , i used to like games such as organizing words into categories , and i think perhaps the kick i get from explaining grammar well is an extension of that .
i ’ m interested in this job for so many reasons .
as i mentioned , i love the english language .
i am also fascinated to learn about people and their life stories , and in this job i meet a huge variety of people from all over the world .
i ’ m keen to help bridge the divides between cultures .
when people speak a common language , and can communicate , then perhaps they can start to understand each other better in other ways too .
the medical science has went up the life span of the people because the treatment is available for most of the disease .
the diseases are also decreasing because of the medicines .
the medical science has many advantages and very important for the people because of following reasons .
firstly , the medical science helps people prevent from diseases .
the prevention of the diseases is available now due to the new technology of medical science .
the disease can be prevented by using the proper care and proper medicines .
the medical devices are available in the hospitals to prevent the diseases .
the diseases are caused by the bacteria and today we use many products to prevent the bacteria like hand wash and antiseptic creams .
so we can prevent the diseases before it gets too late .
secondly , it finds better detection .
there was a time when it was not so easy to detect the diseases .
it is essential to detect the diseases for the better treatment .
medical science provides many ways and tools for the detection of the diseases .
the doctors can provide the treatment if they know about the type of diseases .
the many tools and technologies are available today for the detection of all diseases .
it is very important to detect the disease for the treatment before getting the serious problem .
finally , it help the doctors discover better treatment for the diseases .
the treatment is available for most of the diseases and this is because of the medical science .
the medical science is making it effective to get the better treatment for the health problems .
now the death rate is decreasing caused by diseases .
doctors can give the best treatment at the effective cost .
the surgery is also available for the various problems .
the drugs and medicines are available easily for the various health problems .
do you think of using electricity power wastefully every day ?
do you know that many countries without electricity power ?
in viet nam , the people in remote mountains as ha giang , lang son province .
have used oil lamp instead of electricity power .
electricity is one of the most important power in life .
you can make daily activities as eating , bathing , relaxing , .
all using electricity power , even writing this essay on my laptop .
do you remember that you are crazy without electricity power just one day , especially on summer with 40 degrees .
are you saving electricity power ?
or using them wastefully ?
for me , it ’ s so shy because of my daily routines , and i have read some news of the life in high mountain that the people make the lights by water bottles then many lights are turned on everywhere , they makes me feel hurt .
dear friends !
it ’ s time to learn the way to save electricity power , that ’ s the way you save your life , and all .
let ’ s join the earth hour !
in the future i want to become a fashion designer .
my goal is to create clothes for all sizes , ages , and genders .
in my clothing i want to show a creative side of my artistic ability and i want to make my clothing affordable for all as well .
i think i want to become a fashion designer because i have a passion for art .
i enjoy making sketches of clothing that i hope one day will be available in stores all over the world .
fashion designing , to me , is a way to express the unique side of your creativity .
this is also a career that i believe i can achieve if i stay focused and continue to put effort in my creations .
i find interior designing as a possible career in my future since it ’ s somewhat similar to fashion designing .
both involve having a sense of style and an eye for color , texture and pattern coordination .
in order to prepare for this career in my future i need to attend a college involving designing , fashion designing , and a type of art .
the qualification i would need would be a two to four-year college for fashion designing and a one to three-year college for interior designing .
these careers require a bachelor ’ s degree in some place of art .
so as to attend college , first of all i have to maintain an acceptable grade point average which is 2.5 or higher depending on the location of the college as well as the level of the skill learning of the college .
it is undoubtedly the case that cities around the world increasingly suffer from congestion .
in this essay , i will examine the reasons leading to this trend and suggest some practical policies the authorities could implement to reduce the level of traffic in our cities .
the first step is to understand why traffic has increased in cities .
broadly speaking , there are three main reasons for this .
the third reason is that society has in general become more mobile and this means more people are prepared to commute to work by car than they were before .
there is almost certainly no one who can propose solution to this problem given the complexity of its causes .
however , one option has to be to improve the reliability of public transport to encourage people to take buses or the trains rather than get in their cars .
it would also be possible to discourage people from driving to work by introducing special tariffs for using the roads , especially during rush hours .
a successful example of this is the congestion charge scheme in london which has certainly reduced the level of traffic in inner-city areas .
in conclusion , there are a variety of different factors that have led to rising levels of traffic in urban areas .
while it may not be possible to find a complete solution , any action should probably involve encouraging greater use of public transport and making it more expensive for the motorist to drive in urban areas .
the job of a pilot is a very hard and risky , but prestigious one .
pilots travel thousands of kilometers a day and they can find themselves in different time and climate zone .
they can see all parts of the world and get to know new people where they arrive .
but a pilot also faces some problems .
they often suffer from jet lag and can easily become tired when being in different time zones .
they have to spend many days away from home and their families .
even though many people think it is a real dream job , pilots must be responsible for other people because they hold the lives of a few hundred passengers in their hands .
they are required to have hundreds of hours of training before that .
pilots must remain calm in dangerous situations and always have to make the right decisions .
they also need to see and hear perfectly .
many people believe that pilots are paid a lot of money .
it is true for pilots who work for a big airline company , smaller budget ones can not afford to pay their pilots that much .
in today ’ s world , airlines are competing fiercely for their market shares .
as a result , pilots may lose their jobs if airlines decide to cut costs .
sharing is a good way of living in modern society .
sharing , literally , means showing concerns and empathy towards other people .
.
the sharing is expressed in many ways , which can be very small actions such as encouragement , comforting words , holding hands or loving eyes .
sharing has a very important role in life .
no one lives without the sharing of others .
life is always full of difficulties and no one knows what to expect .
sometimes , we need to share so that we can get motivation to move on .
the sharing is not a figurative thing .
sometimes , just a small action is enough .
sharing is not difficult , all it needs is an act from the bottom of your heart .
what will you get in return for you share ?
the answer is love .
if you want to receive , firstly , you have to learn how to give and to share .
life not only has material value but also needs sincere feelings .
sharing and empathy will bring you wonderful things and make your life better .
people often say the coldest place is not the north pole , but the place where there is no love . life is giving and receiving .
so , why not give love to receive love back ?
in my freetime , i like to dance .
i know that for some people dancing is not considered a true hobby .
but the way i see it , if i enjoy dancing and spend my precious time doing it , then i have every right to consider it as my special hobby .
dancing was just my thing .
as far as i can remember about my childhood , right after i learned to walk , i have always loved to dance and i began to dance around the house all the time .
my mom put me in dance school when i was three years old .
i would learn so quickly that the instructor would sometimes ask me to help her teach the other students .
my first dance show was at school festival when i was five years old .
becoming a famous dancer was one of my greatest childhood dreams .
it is hard to define the actual start of dancing .
dancing has been around for too long that people can ’ t remember .
dancing is a category of art that is popular worldwide , streaming through every country in many forms .
everyone can dance in their own way so it is easy to get started with this hobby .
dancing requires both physical and mental tenacity .
this is difficult in the face of a highly competitive atmosphere and the pressures of a busy academic and social life .
however , my passion and love for it have made all of these struggles worth it .
dancing was a hobby that i always will love .
my love of dance has always served as an inspiration for me .
i dance from my heart and always strive to do my best .
my father is a lovely father of the world .
he is my real hero , my best friend , my inspiration in my life .
he is the person who helps me a lot in getting prepared for the school , getting rise of the bed and having my homework done well .
he always cares for me and calls my mom in the afternoon just to know that whether i arrive home from school at right time or not .
he is very healthy , fit , happy , peaceful and punctual person .
he always goes to the office on time and also teaches us to go to school at right time .
he teaches us the value of time in life and says that if one wastes his or her time , time ruins his or her life .
he is a very nice person and helps my neighbors in their difficult time .
he always loves , cares and respects my mom and never quarrels with her .
he always supports her and sometimes , he helps in the kitchen during her illness .
he respects and loves my grandparents and teaches us to take care of them .
he tells us that old people are like god for us , we should care , love and respect them .
we should never avoid the old in their difficult time as this time comes in everyone ’ s life once .
he tells us that we should always help needy people of any age group all through the life according to our status .
he takes 15 minutes of us every day to tell us about the ethics and other good habits .
every teacher devotes all his or her life to education .
it usually isn ’ t because of the money or the three-month summer vacation .
reasons for becoming a teacher are deeper than that , and while they are personal , they are almost all united by the desire to impact peoples ’ lives .
one reason to become a teacher is to influence the education system .
if you recognize the need to improve the quality of education in your country , then you may become a teacher to make change .
there is a lot of work to be done , but it is the collective effort of thousands of dedicated teachers that will make the most difference .
another reason for becoming a teacher is to make contribution to your community in a meaningful way .
teaching is one of the most direct ways to make an impact , and if you are driven by the desire to help people around you , being a teacher is an invaluable contribution .
teachers do more than teaching , and their impact extends far beyond the classroom .
as a teacher , you are more than just an educator because you are a mentor , a confidant and a friend .
one of the most common reasons to become a teacher is to make a difference in the lives of as many students as possible .
teachers have more chances to interact with students at all stages of development and from all walks of life .
a great teacher always wants to help students along their path and to play a part in shaping the person they hope to become .
becoming a teacher lets you impart life lessons that they will never forget and puts you in a position to influence their decisions , behaviors , strengths , weaknesses and imaginations .
essentially , becoming a teacher lets you take part in shaping the next generation .
what ’ s your hobby ?
reading books , listening to music , shopping .
or feeding cats like me .
the biggest hobby i like is feeding cats .
i guess that many people will have this hobby like me , especially girls .
cats are dutiful , cute and very easy to feed .
since i was 10 , i have been interested in having a cat , and my father gave me a white cat as a gift to celebrate the 11th birthday .
i cried so much , because of happiness , and i promised that i will take care of him carefully .
and now , i ’ m 18 years old , i still raise this cat .
every day in the morning , i usually feed him , and then i go to school , and he stays at home .
in the afternoon , i take him for a walk with my mother .
about 2 – 3 days , i just take him to have a bath , because , he is scared of water .
in the winter , i really like to buy clothing for my cat to make him warm , and this is the best thing i like .
next time , i prepare to have a lady cat from my grandma , so i feel happy and look forward to this moment .
and you , do you love cats like me ?
mountains always have a great fascination for men and people , particularly the rich go to the mountains to escape from the noise of the life below .
mountain climbing , however , is not without risks .
it is a challenge to the unconquerable spirit of a man and his love of adventure .
that this is a dangerous sport can not be denied .
when one climbs higher and higher , breathing becomes more and more difficult .
some climbers , therefore , carry a heavy apparatus on their back from which they inhale oxygen .
mountain climbing is extremely dangerous .
there are snow storms and blizzards .
it is troublesome to walk through the snow .
it is still more difficult to climb on ice because it is hard to keep foothold and cut steps with axes so as to make progress .
the cold is so severe that the climber ’ s feet , toes and fingers may suffer from frostbite .
the most serious difficulty is that the climber at a high altitude gets exhausted with a little effort .
mountain climbing requires proper training , skill and knowledge .
the climbers must be well equipped .
they must be in good physical condition and should have courage , perseverance and power of endurance .
they should carry with them maps , compasses and other equipment in order that they are able to find out where they are in the absence of any , tracks .
the climbers take with them packs loaded with first-aid supplies , food and extra clothing for sudden changes of weather .
they display the spirit of sportsmanship and fellow-feeling and face the severe risks of life undaunted .
mountain climbing is a thrilling but manly adventure .
it brings into playing the heroic qualities of man .
mountaineers deserve all praise for their courage and heroism .
ho chi minh city is one of the biggest cities in the south of vietnam , which provides people with a great number of various jobs .
therefore , people from many different parts of the country keep on moving to this city , hoping to find out their ‘ paradise ’ .
for those who have been living in this city for a long time , more than 10 years for example , their ‘ used-to-be paradise ’ is getting worse and worse .
its increasing crime and disorder also makes ho chi minh city a worse place to live in today than ten years ago .
a number of the city dwellers , especially young illiterate guys of lower social classes , can not earn their living legally .
they allow themselves to rob or steal anything they can to satisfy their needs , irrespective of how serious the consequences of their frightening acts are .
pollution is the first thing that makes ho chi minh city a worse place to live in .
its drainage system has been overbooked to drain for a city of over seven million people nowadays .
consequently , the so-called ‘ the pearl of the far east ’ is getting more and more polluted .
water pollution is only part of the pollution facing all the dwellers of this biggest city in vietnam .
the air pollution here is no less serious .
thousands of factories are still located inside this city and keep on releasing poisonous smoke .
various means of transportation , especially millions of motorcycles , do contribute to the ever-increasing air pollution in ho chi minh city .
it is invariably true that every person who is knowledgeable leads a successful life .
knowledge is very important tool to get positive changes in the society and country .
knowledge helps us to absorb things from the genius people which have potential to improve the quality of life .
knowledge is the only precious thing which nobody can take away from us .
it gives new and revolutionary ideas which help to alter the way of viewing the world .
so , we can say that knowledge is pillar to the success and happiness .
knowledge helps us to convert our planning into the right action and enables to get the difference between right or wrong and good or bad .
it helps us to overcome our weaknesses and faults as well as makes us able to face the dangers and difficulties by giving lots of courage and confidence .
it makes a person more powerful by giving him mental , moral and spiritual advancement in the life .
human beings are physically weaker than animals yet they have managed things for years to become the most powerful creature on earth .
because they get power from knowledge and are independent on the physical strength .
human beings are clever creature of nature , they have ability to acquire knowledge and preserve their knowledge , research and experiences in the books in order to pass to the new generations .
knowledge gives them power to know how to control the forces of nature and then use them for getting benefited .
knowledge is a most strong tool which can not be defeated by other power on the earth .
knowledge provides social power to person holding certain power over those people who do not .
obtaining knowledge helps to address various difficulties in life .
cats as pets have become far more familiar with mankind community , and indeed , the importance of relationship between human beings and pets has been proved to be slightly exaggerated in some nations .
however , although problems regarding cats ’ hair may affect the health conditions of people , the benefits that these lovely animals bring to them , physically and mentally , are clearly undeniable .
in term of physical benefits , the well-being with cats are more favorable compared to those without pets , since not only do they have to take after themselves , the responsibility to ensure their love one being fed and well taken care of makes them to become even more active .
owing to these extra activities , this though might not have an obvious influence on their health , but at least this could help them to avoid bad lifestyles .
coupled with physical side , their mental aspect will also be improved , and the reason is that having someone to take care of would reduce the feeling of loneliness .
therefore , their depressing rate could be minimized .
despite the above advantages , the threats of too close interaction between cats and vulnerable people still exist .
one of the major concerns is the harmfulness of their hairs on their owner , especially those with asthma .
because of the virtually invisible in the air , many asthma symptoms are caused unconsciously by pets .
in addition , old people might experience difficulty in looking after their pets , because their health conditions are limited , which could become even more challenging when they try to take care of others .
in conclusion , it is true that obstacles still exist for people in adopting pets , but the benefits of this topic outweigh its shortages .
for these reasons , instead of discontinuing them , further support would be far more beneficial .
nowadays , teamwork is an essential element of the society .
we all work with people everyday .
a co-worker is a person with whom we work closely and share tasks .
in my opinion , the important characteristics of a co-worker should be as followed .
first of all , an important character of a co-worker should be reliability .
as we often have to encounter a lot of problems at work , it is a good thing to work with someone that we can always count on .
a reliable co-worker can help us with problems that we can not solve by ourselves .
also , if we happen to be absent from work , a reliable co-worker can always backup what we have been working on and make correct decisions even without us .
last of all , another important character of a co-worker should be responsibility .
indeed , no one would want an irresponsible person as his or her co-worker .
it would be a nightmare if your co-worker does not do anything and leave everything for you to finish .
on the other hand , a responsible co-worker not only do his own part of work , but also , as soon he finishes his own , helps you finish yours , which in turn enhances the efficiency of the work .
a responsible co-worker can help others work more efficiently by giving others aid in addition to getting their part of job done .
to summarize , as i have stated above , a good co-worker should be reliable and responsible .
a co-worker that possesses these characteristics can certainly help enhance the progress of work and benefits his or her colleagues as well .
violin is one of the rare instruments that you can learn at a very young age , as they make very small student versions , and so at the age of 10 i began to learn to play violin .
learning violin was a lot of fun to me due to the great teachers in the class , and now that my parents knew that i needed to stay interested so as to keep progressing .
following the traditional path , i started with group violin lessons rather than individual violin lessons .
i didn ’ t even start with a real violin .
we all had boxes that were wrapped in brown paper !
a ruler was taped to the end of the box to simulate a fingerboard , and our bow was the cardboard tube from a clothes hanger .
therefore , my very first lessons on how to play violin were actually about how to stand , how to hold the violin , and how to make the proper movements in unison with the teacher and the other kids .
it didn ’ t take long for me to earn the privilege of unwrapping my box and receiving a real violin .
and soon my violin lessons , along with daily practice with my parents , became part of the family routine .
i know now that to learn to play violin , you need to be drawn to the sound of the violin .
you ’ re going to be hearing that sound a lot , so it ’ s very crucial to have some connection there from the start !
you will need someone who can show you proper setup at the beginning , since there are so many dead ends and blind alleys related to postures and positioning that are very hard to overcome without help .
and you also need someone around you who can motivate you and keep you accountable on a regular basis .
it ’ s best if this person is a violin teacher , someone who can assess your progress regularly .
why learn to play violin instead of other instruments ?
because the violin is so versatile !
you can play alone , choosing among hundreds of years ’ worth of solo repertoire from composers as diverse as bach , paganini , bartok or john adams .
you can play with a friend who has a piano , or with three in a string quartet .
you can also play in a string orchestra or a full orchestra .
and there are many more community orchestras than professional ones so that anybody that wants to play in a group has a chance .
the discipline and love of the violin sound will take you anywhere you want to go .
if you ’ ve been thinking about learning to play violin , don ’ t wait any longer !
find a violin , get it a check-up , and get someone to show you the basis .
then don ’ t let anything stand in your way .
because of the deep penetration of the internet across the world , it would indeed be a big problem if the ‘ internet plug ’ was pulled out from our lives .
we have become dependent on the internet for most of the things we want to do such as learning , shopping , socializing , or entertaining ourselves .
it has become a way of life for many of us .
in the absence of the internet , the implications would be devastating .
the impact of having no internet on your overall living style would depend upon how often you use it , and what you use it for .
if you were an internet addict , you would find that your life has come to a screeching halt .
people use the internet to stay connected to our friends and family .
if you had gotten very used to socializing online , you would now be clueless as to how you could share those pictures of your recent trip you went for , with your friends spread across the globe .
it would be difficult to meet and interact with people living outside your locality .
with no way to communicate using emails , instant messaging , chat , or social media , we would have to resort to those old ways of communicating with people .
we would have to resort to the option of a face-to-face interaction , telephone conversation , or sending and receiving snail mail .
the internet has become a gigantic sea of information and resources .
no internet would mean no instant and easy access to information at the click of a button .
you would have to walk down to your local library and actually search the whole place to get the information you are looking for , with little chances that you will find what you seek instantly .
students who were in the habit of using the internet for completing their assignments and projects will have a tough time figuring out an alternative .
to sum up , the internet now plays an important role in our daily life .
if there were no its existence , you couldn ’ t read this example essay .
playing sport is necessary because it brings about physical strength and mental power to the person involved in this on regular basis .
outdoor sports such as football , cricket , volleyball , hockey , running , help in improving physical health and mental fitness .
however , some indoor games and sports like brain games , chess , sudoku .
improve mental power and concentration level .
sports and games are very beneficial to us as they teach us punctuality , patient , discipline , teamwork and dedication .
being involved in the sports activities helps us in getting protected with numerous diseases such as arthritis , obesity , heart problems , diabetes .
it teaches us to go ahead in life by removing all the weaknesses .
it makes us bold and gives the feeling of happiness by reducing the occurrence of anxiety and angry .
my favourite subject in high school is english .
i not only want to become fluent in foreign language but also desire to deeply understand the beauty of this language .
in my opinion , english is one of the most powerful tools that exists nowadays to communicate to other people .
it makes easier to make friends around the world .
by using english , we can explore the world in a deeper way .
thanks to this language , i can understand more about different cultures .
i am the kind of person who love traveling .
therefore , it ’ s essential to master in english if you want to communicate to the local people .
in addition , you won ’ t feel lost in the middle of a city because you can ask the natives for help .
it was such an amazing method of communication when i travelled in japan , french or korea without knowing the local languages .
furthermore , i believe that english helps a lot to get access to the latest information about scientific topics such as economics , which by the way was my major at university .
if you want to be at the forefront in your professional field , nothing is better than reading the different articles .
whilst , most of them are written in english .
in conclusion , i think that there are many reasons to learn english because of it ’ s benefits .
if you really fall in love with english , you will never want to give up it for any reasons .
everyone always has expectation to be rich or to have his or her own company .
some people dream of becoming leaders , politicians and famous stars .
there are others who are interested in becoming poets , writers and novelists while most of us generally have a desire of becoming engineers , doctors and scientists of great repute .
it is not easy to choose a career that is suitable or relevant to your major today .
hundreds of students are leaving schools and universities every year to seek employment in the various professions , though employment opportunities are not increasing proportionately .
as a result , the rate of unemployment is increasing rapidly every year .
before graduating from school or university , you may have many plans and be confident that choosing a career will not be difficult .
however , after graduation , you will find that there are others with better qualifications waiting to enter the same position .
it means that the job which you are willing to follow , could be taken by others .
in reality , many employees are working in the fields that are not actually relevant to his or her major in schools .
in conclusion , i believe that the dream of becoming a mill-owner or a multi­millionaire can become true or turn out to be nothing .
however , following a career sometimes is just a life of simplicity and goodness devoted to the service of humanity .
before any decisions to career , you should remember that .
the motto of this life is ‘ simple living and high satisfaction .
sport is a very important thing in our life .
it plays a vital role in keeping our health safe as well as contributing in human personality .
some of these sports are dangerous like high-speed motor racing .
many people prefer this dangerous sports and keep practicing regularly .
there are several reasons why many people like motor racing .
the large amount of income and an astonishing fame allowing them to become a global celebrity are some of the main reasons which in turn lead to adrenalin rush among the sport professionals to participate in unsafe sporting activities .
the racing drives are those who daily undergo such high risk conditions , for instance , however , they are willing to do it repeatedly due to the rewards they receive through this .
i think they love to do so because they may feel a sort of lack of confidence , so they try to maintain this point by doing these dangerous sports .
the most striking feature , in my opinion , is the stress in addition to the negative energy that many people have , they need to get rid of their stress by practicing racing .
i tend to see that , these racers should be trained well by professional coaches before they start playing motor racing to minimize any danger that may occur during this practice .
also , some restrictions should be done for this sport and it should be related to age , as the small children and young ages should be prevented from practicing this kind of sports because they may still young to deal with their dangerous .
today if there is any institution which has the greatest influence on us after the family , it is the school .
the time that we spend in school are not only time spent in learning and filling our minds with knowledge , but also time spent forming our character , acquiring various attitudes and imbibing basic principles of life .
the basic traits of our personality are formed during our school days .
the name of my school is nguyen binh khiem high school .
it is situated in the suburb of hai phong city .
it is considered to be one of the finest schools in the city , highly acclaimed for its excellent for number of talented students .
the school building is an impressive structure .
it consists of four three – floor blocks and has about 36 classrooms .
classrooms are spacious and airy .
two staircases at both ends lead to the floors .
the school has a well-equipped library , a well- established science laboratory and two excellent computer room , all of which are situated on the a separate block .
there is an area for learning physical education and sports .
two cemented basketball courts stand in the right corner , while the school ’ s football field is in the center of the area .
on the left center , there are two courts for badminton and volleyball .
a small garden full of flower plants surrounds the school building adding to the charm and beauty of the entire complex .
my school has over 1200 students .
our headmaster is an experienced and efficient person who has been at his job for the last 10 years and more .
under his able direction , the school has been obtaining many good result and gain the dispute in the city .
the teachers here are well-experienced and knowledgeable in their subjects .
a lot of emphasis are given to character formation , moral education and acquiring good values of life .
although the school environment is rather strict and time-table based , but there is lot of fun and joy in the school .
matches , tournaments , musical shows , competitions , events , make my school life lively , interesting and enjoyable .
i am proud to be a student of nguyen binh khiem high school .
people tend to believe that they can only achieve happiness in life by following their dreams , doing things they really love to do and ignoring any other factors .
in fact , happiness is not something you can measure and evaluate .
happiness is fluid , flexible and it differs from people to people .
happiness is unlike a goal which has concrete meaning and limit .
a goal you set can be clearly seen by other people .
however , happiness is something only you can define byyourself .
it is not a goal to achieve , rather it is a feeling you have .
the fluffy and little pleasure you have in your life is what make you happy .
a dream , in the other hand , is more complex and goal-like .
you dream to be a successful business man or a celebrity singer .
you have goals which are long-term and enormous .
however , in most cases , you just dream to be someone else rather than being that person in reality .
this is what we call fantasy dream .
to put it simple , that is an illusion you create to escape from your boring and depressing daily routine .
it has relationwith having the happiness you really want .
the happiness you need is always around you , in your own boring life .
asking yourself this question to discover your true happiness in life .
what make you feel content , pleasant and thankful .
people blame for their own jobs , hate their devastated state of life they have , but normally forget the small grateful , and serene moments that calm their fluctuating heart .
remember your favorite songs you repeatedly listen to .
remember the warm and cozy dinner your mom has made for you after a long , busy day at work .
they can be just small , trivia things in your life but they surely serve you well .
what you are waiting for not in the illusion of becoming someone else , but enjoying your life to its utmost .
my long-term objective is to start up an english centre by 2020 , which will be the first one in vietnam targeting at economics students .
the centre , following a four-level structure , will aim at cultivating integrated english skills for learners to facilitate their academic study and research at universities , inspiring them to learn english with endeavour and renovate their own self-studying methods .
furthermore , learners will also benefit from practical internship opportunities at the centre , as active students will be selected for short-term non-profit training programs and directly involved in organizing quarterly english events under mentors ’ guidance .
through gaining first-hand experience in particular projects , they will also actively boost their pool of soft skills , a key criterion in the recruitment policies of both multinational and domestic enterprises nowadays .
human beings are designed in such a way that they are in constant need of love , care as well as affection during all times in their lives .
this is the reason why we seek for companionship at each and every point in our life .
we make friends and maintain a closely knit relationship with them because friends not only take away the feeling of void from your life .
they also make us feel secure and accompanied as an individual .
friendship is considered to be a true blessing for everyone and a person with good friends will have a support system for sharing each and every moment of their life whether it is happy or sad .
i have seen friendships going on for several years and sometimes even for a lifetime with people constantly taking care of each other and maintaining a bond based on trust and care .
especially for people living away from their homes , friends are nothing short of their family .
often known as siblings from different mothers , friends keep us grounded as well as also help us retain the child in us no matter how old we get or how busy we are in leading our professional as well as personal lives .
they are the ones you can run up to in times of any crisis as well as during the happy moments of your life .
friends are our secret keepers with whom we can share everything without the fear of being judged .
the world might go through a tremendous change but friends are the people we can rely on no matter what .
at times , we may come across situations where we doubt our decisions as well as capabilities .
in situations like these , friends help us by providing us with a reality check .
they never let us down and stand besides us like a rock .
true friends show faith in us and also make us believe in our capabilities keeping aside all negative feelings of jealousy , agony and hatred .
friends simply do not care if the fault is yours or not , they will stand by you during all times .
they will never stop defending you or putting their trust in you .
they could have seen us in the ugliest of situations and appearances and they simply do not care about these things and still decide to stick by us through every thick and thin .
in conclusion , it can be depressing for each one of us to live alone at times .
in such times , friends become our ultimate support system and they are our cure for loneliness and depression .
always keeping each others ’ back , friends are everything that we need for making our lives beautiful and content .
what makes a creative leader ?
creativity , as an intangible quality , is difficult to describe in fundamental terms .
likewise , leadership is another virtue that can not be easily qualified as the impacts of true leadership are far-ranging and difficult to measure .
couple these two qualities together and what you get is an exceptionally abstract concept that becomes even more challenging to qualify .
leaders help themselves and others to do the right things .
they set direction , build an inspiring vision , and create something new .
the ability to come up with new ideas is a defining characteristic of creative leaders .
they ’ re able to step out of the common view and imagine new possibilities that set the course for others to follow .
creative leaders anticipate failure .
they eliminate fear of failure to encourage more innovative ideas .
they are not perfectionists who never get it wrong or , worse still .
they are also not the conservatives who never take a risk .
leadership is a mindset in action .
so don ’ t wait for the title .
leadership isn ’ t something that anyone can give you—you have to earn it and claim it for yourself .
each of us has a tremendous capacity for becoming a creative leader as we are unique .
volunteer is one of vietnam ’ s long-standing activities contributing effectively to community development , capacity building and poverty reduction .
volunteer activities are taking place vibrantly with every passing day , not only do they bring positive results from specific volunteer programs but they also conduce to generate and raise awareness for a large number of people in vietnam .
the key point of volunteer activities is a part of a global effort to ensure that every child has access to a quality education – it ’ s a direct route out of poverty .
in addition , the activities will be the main distributor of connecting the people , improving the living standard , and helping the poor around countries .
however , the volunteer activities of vietnam are very diverse in both content and form .
in fact , these volunteer activities remain separate and spontaneous .
information on volunteer activities is not accessible with majority seeking information about specific volunteer programs that interest them due to the lack of coordinating network among volunteer clubs and organizations .
with a tradition of solidarity and compassion , all vietnamese people profoundly understand that , to rise from a low starting point , each individual has to make every effort to promote internal strength by volunteering to help the needy and contribute to the development of communities and country .
water shortage is a big concern for many countries around the world .
drinking water protection is the responsibility of both individuals and governments .
everyone plays key role in trying to protect the supply of water .
water is a vital necessity that all people need in order to survive .
without water , people could only live a few days before having serious health problems or even death .
many people believe that the use of water should be restricted in some way .
there can be no doubt that there is a limited supply of fresh water , although some parts of the world feel this more acutely than others .
the high rate of populations around the world where fresh water is already severely scarce might lead governments to the firm decision that they should impose restrictions on how water should be used and how much of it each person should be permitted to use .
whilst i can see that this resolution from government has a certain logic , i think that strict controls are not the final answer .
this severe problem need to be resolved by different ways .
this can be done by building more desalination plants .
however , this is very expensive and some countries could not afford to do this .
another possibility is to educate people how to use the source of fresh water properly .
another solution is to protect existing water supplies like underground supplies and take steps to prevent them becoming polluted .
also , recycled water could be used for irrigating farms .
in conclusion , i believe that governments should ensure that all citizens have sufficient access to fresh water and price it – or allow it to be priced – according to supply and demand .
besides , all citizens should have full responsibility of protecting the supply of fresh water .
nowadays , large cities are becoming more and more inhabited because of the tendency of the immigration to the city .
even though , it brings about many advantages such as more opportunities of jobs and higher living standard , the urban lifestyle make rural dwellers opt to live a different lifestyle than before .
living in a big city may result in many drawbacks as discussed following .
urban centers are filled with motorized transport and other sources of pollutants like waste from the large populations of people , or emissions from factories .
the urban centers have very few or even totally missing green spaces with higher amount of pollutants that are so harmful for citizens .
for a long time , lung cancers , chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases and asthma are just a few diseases common among urban dwellers .
another disadvantage of living in a city is traffic congestion .
every day , many people have to struggle with the transportation jams , who usually face with being late in their office .
they are always stuck for many hours on the way to work .
in addition , more transports on the street are the main distributor of air pollution which can lead to many bad effects on man ’ s health .
it is undeniable that the cost of living in big cities is much higher than in countryside .
the impact of this can result in the expensive cost of the public services such as health service , postal service , education .
it will be difficult for the poor and workers to live in big cities with a low minimum wage .
they seem to struggle with the rapid changes in the price of basic necessities and public services like hospitals , schools .
ao dai the a traditional dress of vietnam .
it is one of the symbols of vietnam .
when one hears about vietnam , the word ao dai will most probably be mentioned .
early versions of the ao dai date back to 1744 when lord vu vuong of the nguyen dynasty decided both men and women should wear an outfit of pants and a gown that buttoned down the front .
what wasn ’ t , until 1930 that ao dai appear similar to what it looks today .
now , men wear it less , generally only on ceremonial occasions such as weddings or funerals .
during the 1950s two tailors in saigon started producing ao dai with raglan sleeves .
this creates a diagonal seam running from the collar to the underarm .
this style is still preferred today ao dai is made individually to fit each customer ’ s shape to create the most flattering look .
its body-hugging top flows over wide trousers that brush the floor .
the pants should reach the soles of the feet and flow along the floor .
comfortability is always taken into account for fashions and beauty .
tailors must be skills so as to ensure the wearer has freedom of movement .
despite it being a long robe , ao dai is cool to wear .
synthetic or silk fabrics are best to use because they do not crush and dry quickly .
for this reason ao dai is a practical uniform for daily wear .
the color can show the wearer ’ s age and status .
young girls wear pure white , fully-lined outfits symbolizing their purity .
older but unmarried girls move into soft pastel shades .
only married women wear ao dai in strong , rich colors , usually over white or black pants .
`` ao dai is rarely seen in places where manual work is practiced .
in the nineties the ao dai become popular again .
it has become standard and common attire for female students as well and staff at offices and hotels .
ao dai nowadays is very popular with different designs and colors .
`` ao dai has become the most preferred dress for formal occasions and traditionally ceremonies .
today , ao dai has been modified .
its length is cut shorter usually just below the knee .
variations in the neck , between boat and mandarin style , are common .
access to new fabrics have made for some interesting design most visitors to vietnam admire local tailors ’ skills when making ao dai .
it is hard to think of a more elegant , demure and charming outfit , that suits vietnamese women of different ages , than ao dai .
consumers in many countries are encouraged to consume more products .
from an economic perspective , there is a constructive culprit of development for production , whilst there is a pervasive anxiousness about the adverse impact of shopaholic tendency on the society .
if a greater demand for products is stimulated , the production will be developed to meet this market needs .
the decision of manufacturers is affected by the capacity of consumption for products which is the key contributor to their profits .
consumers are favorable with their products , thereby an increase in their profits induces to the extending production scales .
for example , vietnamese noodle corporations , in recent years , have diversified and developed their products thanks to the high demand for instant noodle .
on the other hand , through an increasingly more materialistic mentality along with mass marketing , citizens are getting addicted to shopping .
instead of exerting their spending efficiently , they are willing to afford to new products which following by trend .
the majority of them have struggled with overspending that triggers to their burden of debt .
moreover , shopaholic tendency can predispose to break off their responsibility .
for example , their responsibility of mothers for ensuring a balanced and nutritious diet for their kids by home cooked meals will be replaced with habit of buying fast food owing to the available to the convenient food in stores or restaurants .
in conclusion , benefits of encouraging consumption for efficient production from economic perspectives are undeniable .
however , uncontrolled spending and debt as well as bad habits are negative of this trend .
there are many valuable things in life , but friendship may be one of the most important .
a friend may be defined as .
`` a person whom you know , like and trust .
but to all , friendship has no clearly defined terminology .
the definition of a friend , and friendship , is based upon our own notions .
true friendship is a feeling of love , sharing and caring .
it is a feeling that someone understands and appreciates you as you are , without any exaggeration , flattery and pretensions .
it gives a feeling that you are unique and that you are someone and not a faceless being in the crowd .
a true friend stands by you through thick and thin .
lasting friendship is indeed , a blessing .
good friends are great pillars of life .
they help us to stand tall and erect in life .
friendship can make or break us .
it can lead to good careers and proper living .
it does not matter how often you meet your friends , but how much you care and feel for another in good times as well as in bad times .
true friendship is a great asset in life .
friends are needed in every stage of life .
friendship has no age limit .
every group of people-children , youth , elders , very elderly people , have their friends .
famous saying states that .
to live life without the experience of friendship , is life without living .
my mother is the most important person in my life .
she is an inspiration to everything i do .
i would not call her a friend , but she is an extraordinary person .
she has been in my life since i was born and she will always be in my life no matter what happens .
she is the one who has suffered to bring me into this world .
i have learnt to love her since the day i was born .
my mother was the first person to teach me to draw and walk , and she was with me when i took my first step ever !
she has taught me to believe in people and not to have grudges against one another .
she always encouraged me to go along when i was ready to give up .
she made sure that i was safe and happy throughout my childhood .
it is the unconditional love that my mother gives to me .
it is hard to describe the feeling that a mother has towards her children .
mothers give an awful lot of support to their children , whether it involves very visible support or simple back encouragement .
not only do mothers support their children , but they also often hold the whole family structure together .
when all is well , a mother puts her children before anything else , including their own comfort and happiness .
describing a mother 's love is virtually impossible .
it is a feeling that can only truly be understood by those that experienced it .
famous saying states that god could not be everywhere and so he invented mothers !
garment technologists can be employed by manufacturers or large , high-street retailers .
working in the manufacturing and production industry , a technologist has a role in selecting and testing the ideal fabric or material for products .
a clothing or textile technologist works with a variety of fabrics , both man-made and natural fibers , as well as leather , fur , metals and plastics .
as a technologist , you ’ ll find fabrics or textiles that are fit for purpose and carry out quality control tests .
you ’ ll work on the development of products , improving production efficiency and quality , while incorporating with those involved in the production process .
some technologists specialize in research and product development and may implement research to find new ways of using yarns , develop chemicals that may be added into fabrics to make them more waterproof , flame-resistant or shrink-resistant , and experiment with textiles to improve their look , feel , texture and durability .
you will need to have a high level of technical knowledge and strong practical skills , the ability to work as part of a team and to liaise with colleagues in other tasks .
besides , you have to master organizational skills , to ensure time schedules are adhered to and deadlines are met .
it will be useful if you have got an interest in , and understanding of computer technology .
an idol is a person who has a big influence on your life in many ways .
i consider my dad as my idol .
he is the most respectable and important person in my life .
he has influenced not only my life but the life of my whole family .
my dad is working as a regional manager in state bank of india .
he has worked very hard in his entire life to make sure that i and all my family members have everything that we need and do not lack anything .
since my childhood he has taught me and my siblings ’ important values and value for money that we apply in our everyday life .
he is my real life hero and pillar of my life to make me strong and keep moving .
he has taught me how to avoid fighting on little things .
he has always told me to sacrifice things for others and face the hardships .
i discuss my personal problems with my dad and he always guides me how to deal with them in the most possible way .
not only i but also my friends discuss their personal issues with my dad .
he is patient , caring , loving and understanding .
he listens to my ideas about successful life diligently and shows me how to reach that point .
even in bad situations he keeps himself collected and cool and never loses his temper .
my family plays an important role in my father ’ s life .
owing to his job he is always occupied with work pressure .
but then he manages to take out time for us from his busy schedule .
he is the strongest person i have ever known .
he has always guided us to live a spiritual and free life .
he will always be my hero .
to me , he is the best father in the world and my love and respect for him can not be framed in words .
environmental pollution has made negative effects on the life of every living things on earth .
nearly all of our achievements in the fields of industrial progress , science and technology have been realized at the cost of our health so far .
even our flora and fauna have been found to be at risk of extinction .
all this really makes us wondering whether all our gains and industrial civilization really enable us to climb the peaks of prosperity or simply bring us down the blind alleys of adversity .
many programs against environmental pollution are strenuously implemented against the indiscriminate violations committed daily in the name of development .
the environmental pollution is not only caused by the emission from nuclear tests or industries .
the smoke from the automobiles and other vehicles , the increasing use of synthetic detergents , nitrogen insecticides and fertilizers contaminate both air and water .
the water we use to drink the vegetables are all contaminated .
as a result , our world is suffering from a number of incurable diseases .
nothing in this world is immune , no life is safe and the prospect of this world is bleak .
the factories are mostly built in residential areas and the smoke-emitting vehicles ply through the congestion areas .
besides causing immense disturbances , it also leads to increasing number of case of pulmonary thrombosis and tuberculosis and various sorts of brain and heart complications .
air-pollution may cause severe lung diseases , brain-disorder diseases , asthma .
soil-pollution may negatively affect farm output ratio .
it can also contaminate the groundwater .
noise-pollution have negative effects on hearing ability .
it can also cause deafness , tiredness , and mental losses .
the heat generated by industries and vehicles causes thermal pollution by raising the environmental temperature of the nearby areas .
the birth of mills and factories is the result of the growth of industry in this machine-predominated period .
as long as they will be there , they must emit smoke , pollute the air and hasten our end by slow-poisoning .
for teenagers , having a job is a way of earning money , just a way of having extra cash for movies or clothes .
it makes us feel independent .
personally , it made me feel like an adult .
it taught me how to take responsibility and handle my finances .
i had to learn how to take public transportation , interact with my coworkers , work with different types of people , and also learn about punctuality .
in a way , it was almost like i had learned real life skills within 3 months .
i will never forget my first job experience .
it will always be a big part of my maturing and becoming a young adult .
our supervisors helped us get familiar with google apps .
we played with it , did tutorials , did assignments until we knew what we were doing like the backs of our hands .
finally , after a fortnight we were ready to start on a first project .
we were all assigned some clients and began building websites for them .
it was an interesting experience and i loved every step of it .
not only did we build websites for clients , we did onsite training for different companies and helped them get acquaintance with google apps .
it required us to speak in front of public and be willing to answer questions .
it was nerve-wracking but my supervisor was there every step of the way , guiding and correcting my mistakes .
week by week , time passed .
before i knew it , it was the last day of my internship .
both of my supervisors gave us some useful advice on furthering our future careers .
my internship has taught me many beneficial things .
they are to always have an open mind and be willing to work in any type of environment , to be willing to adapt to a new work place and be respectful and kind to not only my future supervisors but my coworkers as well .
what i have learned in the span of three months will always be a big part of me growing up .
i ’ m looking forward to taking what i ’ ve learned and applying it .
whoever you are , you have the right to dream of your future job .
i also have one .
that is my desire to become a teacher .
just thinking of my job , i feel so happy .
my friends often ask me that .
why do you choose teaching ? .
i smile .
i choose this job , because i love children so much .
i want to take care of them , teach them how to read , how to write , how to listen and show them the beautiful things of this life .
teaching is similar to growing a tree up , you must have patience , carefulness , and passion .
and one of the important reasons that makes me choose this job is my parents .
they hope that i can complete your dream .
in viet nam , the salary of a teacher is quite low , but i still want to become a teacher , simply becausei love this job and i believe in my love , as well as my passion for this job .
in the future , i will become a good teacher .
and now , i ’ m trying my best to complete the program in university to make my dream come true .
smoking cigarettes is an expensive habit .
you can see , the average price per pack of cigarettes isabout 1 dollar , people who smoke 2 packs of cigarettes per daywill spend $ 2 one day on their habit .
at the end of a year those smokers will incur a debt .
since smoking has an offensive odor that permeates into clothing , stuffed carpets and furniture , smokers often find that they must have those items cleaned more frequently than nonsmokers do .
furthermore , a smoker would pay a lot of money for many diseasescaused by smoking .
although it ’ s difficult to sum the cost of those additional expenses , i can say that the expenses do contribute to making smoking become a very expensive habit .
watching television is my favourite activity i like doing in my free time .
i enjoy watching somesport programs on saturday afternoons and movies and cartoons on sunday mornings .
ialways watch televisionduring the week after i have done all my homework .
at night , i like to watchcomedies and movies .
if i have a lot of homework , i will arrange my schedule so that i will have time to watch at least 1 of my favorite shows .
watching television isn ’ t the only activity that i do in my free time .
one of my favorite activitiesis going shopping with my friends and making paper flowers .
however , i spend more time for watching television than many other activities .
watching televisionmake me relax and provide me with a huge amount of knowledge about the world .
if you want to know .
what is the eternityin life ?
only the answer is the sacrifice of mother .
today , i rememberher in the last days of the year , remember the sacrifice that she has given me .
my mother always solves matters in life with sentiment , she is a sensitive woman .
everything were taken care by her , even animal .
sometimes , i feel jealousbecause i 'm her daughter , i think i should be given more carethan all .
i 'm becoming the more egoistic when i stay besidethat great woman .
she always tells me .
when you grow up , , don'tcompare the sentiment with anything in small life , especially motherhood ( it 's everlasting ) and you will know how to express your feeling to someone in different ways , not possession bythe jealousy all the things she do are just tohelp me to be a better human .
but i think if i can be a woman like her , it would be as great as i have all the world .
today , everyone goes back home , the city is not as noisy as the some days ago .
may be , they come back to their friendly family and prepare for tet holiday .
my mother will be asking my sister .
why your younger sister is not staying at home , now ?
i see all the otherstudents come back to their home , my daughter is still busy with part time job , is n't she ?
she will ask my sister until i come home .
i can say with certainty and i 'm so happy aboutit .
since the very beginning of my schooling day as far as i remember , ihave had an attraction for mathematics .
mathematics always gives me extra energy and satisfaction in my study .
i never feelbored with this subject .
as my father is an engineer , he always helps me to learn the subject well .
also , he teaches me with a great technique of visual representation .
he createsa collection of intuitive youtube videos for my favorite subject .
i like learning my favourite subject with myfull energy and want to become a mathematician or mathematics professor .
i like my favorite subject ( mathematics ) because of many reasons .
firstly , this subject does n't need memorizingskill like what a parrot often does .
only logical thinking is sufficient for this subject .
secondly , mathematics always remains evergreen in demand in the field of education .
lastly , without it many life goals can not be achieved .
it is the only subject in which anyone can score full marks andin almost case marks can be improved .
so these are the reasons why i have selected this subject to be my most favoriteone .
i practicemathematics by writing various formulas regularly .
this helps to give outimmediate ideasto solve any problems quickly .
i enjoy practicing critical sums of maths .
i always score above 95 percent in this subject .
it give me a lot of confidence and enjoyment .
our environment is getting worse day by day , and we are suffering forour mistakes .
it 's getting harder and harder for our families to stay healthy with all the bad thingsaround us every day .
we are affected by our environment , andmore and more people are found to be caught with diseases .
this could affect our families and our future one day .
we might not be able to see all of the bad things in our environment , but for sure , they are existing .
although certain groups are most vulnerable , toxic substances in the environment affect every person andall of us have to take responsibility for them .
this saying supports my opinion about the cause because it is saying there aredangerous substances in our environment that we are responsible for .
we are getting sick and even dying because of the bad thingshuman are putting into the environment .
these health problems killed around more than 15.000victims in the year that followed .
approximately 100.000 people still suffer from chronic diseases which are consequencesof gas exposure , today .
this is also stating that the things in our air are killing us .
all of this dangerous toxicsare the cause of getting diseases which are killing the people we love .
the winter of hanoi starts from december and may last until the february , with the average temperature of 15-17°c .
sometimes it drops to below 10°c and the high humidity will make the weather a little bit colder .
remember to bring warm clothes if you do n't want to get a cold when visiting a tropical country .
winter often brings a sad feeling , because the sky is often dark and gloomy .
however , hanoi seems to have its busiest days of the year and streets are more crowded than usual during working hours as people are in rush to complete all the remaining works and prepare for tet holiday .
the cold weather enables people living in hanoi or visitors to enjoy the tasty hot food like hotspot or grilled dishes .
hanoi in early winter morning , the mist makes special beauty for the city .
somewhere people carrying bunches of flowers cycle slowly in the quiet air .
men prefer a hot cup of tea , sitting on the sidewalk evaporates , watching the flow of people back and forth .
hanoi young women walk downstreet in beautiful clothes .
the children wear tightly when they are out , though only playing at doorstep .
the old , with glasses of cold beer , talk about life .
we can also catch the image of street venders struggling when it rains .
the winter is one of many beauties of hanoi .
it 's worth coming and enjoying the atmosphere in hanoi .
in the past , i always thought that game online was a bad thing , because there were many people studying lazily and making their parents worry because of playing games too much .
but when i grow up , i realize that i mistake passion for addiction .
as the same , game online always has advantages and disadvantages .
the hotter a method of entertainment becomes , the more young people try it .
they do n't need to know how the game is .
they will spend time on it , forget to work on the exercise , neglect their study at school .
at first , they want to keep up with the trend but then , it 's hard for them to leave out that habit , which leads to serious consequences .
they attach importance on win , spend a lot of money on game to satisfy themselves .
they forget that playing game is just a means of entertainment after stressful classes so they easily get addicted .
however , there are some advantage of game online .
firstly , we can react in the fastest way in all circumstances , we can become a game creator and have good team-work skills .
secondly , we can explore the way of any game that is controlled , find the rules in each game and developed their idea in the future .
you can also have best friend and live more responsibly .
the most important thing is that people who play game have happy time , relax to concentrate on learning or working .
game online is not bad , but their way play make it become bad .
let try on playing a game one time and you wo n't feel disappointed .
when i was thirteen years old , women 's volleyball team of viet nam took part in the competition with other countries in the southeast asia region .
they played really wonderfully and i admired mrs. pham thi kim hue who was a talent and beautiful female volleyball player .
then , i decided to sign in the volleyball club in my school , i practiced some of basic volleyball skills in this club .
of course , my parent did n't know because i did n't tell them .
at that time , i dreamed that i would become a as good volleyball player as mrs. pham thi kim hue .
every afternoon when classes ended , i played with my team ( some of members in club ) in two hours , we relaxed about 15 minutes , told some of the jokes , smiled together very happily .
after other members left , i stayed with hope .
the team leader could teach me more .
about a week later , my body hurt and appeared so much scratches , especially my arms .
therefore , i had n't been accustomed to strong activities for a long time before .
i consoled myself and continued practicing .
one day , while i were playing volleyball , i fell down in the slippery floor .
as a result , my right arm was broken , my parent was worried , their tear made me feel remorseful .
since then , i sometime play volleyball but i realize .
only love is never enough , your dream will be not perfect without the passion .
the past , i do n't like the cooking .
one day , i just raised my head to surprise two eyes starting at me when i was holding a piece of almond cake .
he said .
can you make it ?
i like it so much .
the fact , it was my friend but ipromised that .
i will make a almond cake for him .
so , he was look handsome .
today , i get up early and go to supermarket to buy some of raw material .
needinga lot of ingredients .
1 cup sliced almonds , butter , purpose flour , 4 egg yolks , 2 large egg whites , whole milk , vanilla extract , fresh lemon juice , black berries , raspberries , salt , sugar .
after make a almond cake , i feel this very interesting .
it 's too difficult to complete .
may be , i should make it in the future , the more one time .
i hope he like a cake i make painfully .
i will give for him , tomorrow .
i have never imagined to make a cake that have many processing stages .
but i promised , i will try my best .
everybody in my family believe that .
i do n't love my dad as the same the different children .
because when i was 2 months old , i have always cried loudly whenever he come on , until i was 10 years old , i rarely talked to him .
i did n't know why was i do ?
may be , i loved my father so much !
my dad is regularly busy , he has to go away my home , such as a working trip .
so , i live with my mom , my sister and my grandparents , i looking forward to the date he come back .
despite the fact that i often cry , hide behind the door when i see him .
i keep in eye of the dad 's action i feel happy so he is beside me .
if he take care of my sister the better than me , i will cry again .
my father is a quiet , taciturn and good man , he make people fell safe and comfortable .
he always buys gift for me , he hope to close to me and see his daughter scurrying , the walked up to him , gave him a kiss on the check and say .
i love you , dad .
many time , i imagined this and promised myself that .
i will live by my true feelings , wo n't fear the break up again .
a long time past , my dad was retired but i went to school away from home so we rarely see each other .
when i have a free time , i phone to him and talk to funny stories that i see , talk to boyfriend that i like .
suddenly , i realize one thing , without my father , is not the more perfect man appear in my life .
having happiness , having sadness , we need accustomed to it .
i were come back my childhood , i will hide in the cabinet to look over the dad 's action .
one thing is the most important in the present .
he have known my feelings .
lunar new year festival often falls between late january and early february .
it is among the most important holidays in vietnam .
officially , the festival includes the 1st , 2nd and 3rd day in lunar calendar .
however , vietnamese people often spend about nearly a month to celebrate this special event .
tet holiday gets its beginning marked with the first day in the lunar year .
however , its preparation starts long before that .
one week before the holiday , in the 23rd day of the last lunar month , is east day—a ritual worshiping kitchen gods ( tao cong ) .
it is believed that each year on this day , these gods go to heaven to tell jade emperor about all activities of households on earth .
on the new year 's eve , they return to earth to continue their duties as taking care of families .
on the new year 's day , the first ones who come to visit households—called first-foot—are very important and hence need to be well chosen , as they are believed to hold in their hands the entire luck of the family in new year ( tan nien ) .
after that , till the third day or even the fourth day of tet , individuals meet relatives , friends and colleagues , wishing them all kinds of good things like happiness , health and success .
many people ponder what they should do for a vacation and i realized a lot of people do n't seem to share our views about traveling .
i believe it 's very important to see the world and different cultures .
it lets us open our minds to new things and we get to experience life in exiting different ways .
traveling gives us the opportunity to disconnect from our regular life .
you get to forget your problems for a few weeks , it can also help you figure things out that you would not have understood without the distance traveling can give you .
we all have crazy schedules , work and a family to take care of , going away alone or with some friends can give you distance and perhaps even make you realize how important these people are for you .
like the saying says .
we never know what we have until we lose it .
another great benefit is the relaxation you get to do .
it 's nice to live life to its fullest and enjoy a stress free time with yourself .
going on vacation lets us recharge our batteries by disconnecting us from our regular life .
when we come back we feel invigorated and we are happy to be back in our day to day routine .
it 's a very good stress remover that has a lot more to give than most people are willing to accept .
traveling increases our knowledge and widens our perspective .
to view new customs , different ways of living is fantastic for the mind .
it gives us a new perspective about life and especially our life , it can help us change some of our habits or even create new ones .
when i travel i usually make it a point to try new food , some cultures do n't have fries in their diet and they are all skinny , others use spices to give taste and not oils or fats .
discovering different values and ways to get by in life is really interesting .
you also need to visit exotic new places and discover what this wonderful world has to offer .
new experiences increase our resourcefulness by living situations you would never encounter at home , this is great experience for you when you come back to your routine .
i have noticed that people who traveled a lot in life were ready to embrace change and have a natural ability of overcoming problems that others would frown upon .
when traveling with friends or family it creates memories for a lifetime .
these memories will create a bond that nothing can erase no matter what happens with the friendship .
it can also give a new perspective on the relationship and cement the bond forever .
it also gives nice stories to tell people afterwards , you can create photo albums about your trips and when you feel nostalgic you can take an hour of your life and experience the trips again by looking at your pictures .
it 's never been this cheap to travel .
with soaring oil prices the cheap travel era might be coming to an end .
however there are still many budget airlines fighting for your dollar right now .
with the internet and all the new technology , you can plan your trip exactly the way you want it .
you can choose your budget , the duration of the trip and what you want to do .
i suggest to read travel blogs and see what others are experiencing , you can save yourself a few hurdles by reading about their trip .
if you have some time off i suggest to take that trip and experience what life has to offer .
do n't wait or tell yourself there will be a better time to go .
take the risk , the opportunity and buy your plane ticket right now and leave .
when you come back you wo n't be sorry that you left , on the contrary you will be thinking of your next trip the second you come back from the airport .
feel free to let me know how traveling helped you out , what new experiences you lived and how they helped you in your life .
michael jackson is one of my favorite singers .
he is very famous , so most of all people in the world know him , at least his name .
i began to listen to his songs because i was recommended them by my friend , and i was really attracted by them .
i have two reasons why i like him .
to me , one of my best friends is thành .
thành is only over eighteen but he is well developed .
so he is thought to be twenty or more .
he has black hair , a broad forehead , a straight nose and bright eyes .
he is very good-looking .
he has a kind heart and is easy to get on with everybody .
we have been friends for a very long time .
the deeper our mutual understanding becomes the more we feel closely attached to each other .
thành and i are keen on learning .
we are the best pupils in our class .
thành is always at the top .
he is good at every subject , but he never shows pride in his abilities and always tries to learn harder .
thành 's family is not rich enough .
his parents are retired workers .
realizing the hardships of his parents , although he is absorbed in his study , he often spends most of his spare time doing useful things to help his parents in their old age .
he gets up early in the morning to have enough time to deliver newspapers to subscribers before going to school .
after school in the afternoon , he repairs bicycles and motorbikes .
therefore the money he gets from his manual job is sufficient for his school fees and for his parents ' presents .
i like thành very much because of his honesty and straight forwardness .
he is always ready to help his weak friends in their study .
as a result , lots of friends , thanks to his whole-hearten help , have become good ones .
my name is tram and i am from binh dinh province or vietnam .
i am currently studying finance and economics at van lang university .
i was raised in binh dinh and when i was 18 i moved to ho chi minh city to take my university study .
last year i went to da nang city to join the school 's exchange program .
during my exchange i went backpacking with other backpackers from all over the city to other province or city across vietnam .
it was a fun experience .
i think i have been fortunate enough to be able to live in different parts of our country and thus be able to broaden my horizon .
i have a strong interest in banking and financial services industry .
the reason is i 'd like to leverage my detail-oriented mind and apply the skills and knowledge that i have attained throughout my degree courses .
i see myself as a people-oriented and over-achiever person .
i demonstrated this through working in various group projects with different types of people in which i had been able to perform well .
my strengths are my attitude that i like to take challenges that i can do it , self motivated person , self disciplined i am a good team player as well as has a good ability to lead the team .
i can adopt to any kind of environment .
i am a good listener and quick learner .
my weakness is i can not tolerate any leniency in work my short term goal is i want a such a platform where i can grow my career along with the organisation growth like yours and .
my long term goal is i want to be one of the reason for the success of the organisation and i want to see your organisation as a bench mark to other organisations .
i would like to be part of your company to further develop myself in banking field and to use my capabilities to serve both your company and your clients .
thats all about me sir .
thank you for giving me such a wonderful opportunity .
friendship is the most valuable relationship in the life of a person instead of having many important things in life .
no one of us has a complete and satisfied life if we lack faithful friendship .
everyone needs a good and loyal friend to share bad or good life events , enjoy happy moments and share unbearable events of the life .
a good and balanced human interaction is very necessary for the survival of everyone .
good friends share each other 's emotions or sentiments which bring feeling of well being and mental satisfaction .
a friend is a person whom one can know deeply , like and trust forever .
instead of being some similarity in the nature of two persons involved in the friendship , they have some different traits but they need each other without changing their uniqueness .
generally , friends motivate each other without criticizing but sometimes good friends criticize to bring some positive changes in each other .
environment is an essential part of our life .
a clean environment is necessary for a peaceful and healthy life .
an environment is the natural surroundings which helps human beings , animals and other living things to grow and develop naturally .
but nowadays , our environment is disturbing in many different ways .
any type of disturbance in the nature 's balance affects the environment totally .
it does not only ruin human lives but also affects on all living beings .
we can save our environment with the little step taken by everyone on the earth .
we should reduce the amount of waste , throwing wastes properly to its place only .
and many other simple ways .
it is very important to save environment for human existence .
when we protect the environment , we are protecting ourselves and our future as well .
friendship is one of the most precious presents of life .
friendship makes life , sweet and pleasant experience .
friendship is indeed , an asset in life .
friendship is good and necessary .
man can not live all alone because he is a social being .
he needs someone to share his joys and sorrows .
there goes a saying friendship increases happiness and diminishes misery by doubling our joy and dividing our grief .
friendship can make or break us .
it all depends on how we choose our friends .
we spent much of our time with them .
their mental outlook , behaviour , attitudes affect us too .
today , many youngsters have become social nuisance mainly due to bad friends .
therefore , we have to choose our friends very carefully .
we have to remember the maxim all that glitters is not gold .
we have to distinguish between fair-weather friends and true friends .
true friends remain with us through thick and thin while fair-weather friends are found only during sunny days .
true friendship is a feeling of love , sharing and caring .
it is a feeling that someone understands and appreciates you as you are , without any flattery .
it gives a feeling that you are 'wanted ' and that you are 'someone ' and not a faceless being in the crowd .
true friendship knows no boundaries of caste , creed , race and sex .
good friends are great pillars of life .
a person who has true friends in life is lucky enough .
it does not matter how often you meet your friends , but how much you care and feel for another in good times as well as in bad times .
everybody has their own type of hobby .
mine tends to be a little delicate , and it requires me to put in such tender care and love .
that is , gardening .
my boyfriend and i live together in a small house , even though the size of the house itself is not ideal compare to other houses nowadays , but it 's still fully equipped .
and , the only one special thing that makes our house stand out , is our backyard garden .
my boyfriend shares the same interest for gardening as me .
we always spend times together taking care of the garden every day .
covering the entire yard is a grass carpet of deep green .
the garden of us gathers a diversity of colors from many kinds of flower such as roses , lilies , sunflowers .
likewise , our garden is also covered by one such soothing aroma from the bushes of orange jasmine ( hoa nguyệt quế ) .
watering , fertilizing , as well as pruning ( tỉa lá ) , are some small works that we do to take care of our lovely garden .
they might sound simple , but in order to complete such those small acts , you have to give in your real effort and love .
if you could do so , i truly believe you yourself would be able to own a spectacular garden that blooms out not only lively colors , but also a unique fragrance , just like our garden .
an ideal family with 2 children .
previously , our ancestor often thought that the more children we had , the more happines we found .
however , in reality , a large family will lead to a lot of problems for the family in particular and for the development of society in general .
many social studies have shown an ideal family is a family with two children .
this is a perfect model for couples with a modern lifestyle because it can overcome various problems that can occur in a family .
specifically here is how people take care of their children .
in 1 minute , your children may hurt themselves by playing with sharp objects such as knife .
many kids have met tragic accident when they participate in playful activities by water without adult supervision .
so parents will take care for children easier and more attentive when they only have two children .
nurturing is another challenge for parents .
however , according to a government report by a government agency , the children raised in families with two children often have better behavior than the kids who have too many brothers and sisters .
the children born and raised in a family with few children will get more attention and lessons from from their parents .
instead of wresting love from their parents , these children are also gainmore opportunities to be heard and to share .
another problem will be solved when a family decides to have few children is finance .
we can not deny the necessity of money in guarantee a fulfilled life and a brighter future for our children .
money will be used to pay for education and health care fee when children are sick .
on the contrary , in a overcrowded home , parents will be faced more financial burden , especially when the kids are born closely with their siblings .
the problem can becomes worse if the family fell into difficult circumstances and do not have enough ability to send their children to school , the children will easily involve into crime matters and became sorrow not only for their parents but also for the society .
my hobby is reading knowledgeable and interesting books in my square time .
reading is such a good habit which healthy for your brain and keeps your brain functioning actively .
reading is a wonderful way to keeps you relax and happy .
for me , there is nothing makes me happier than to have a stack of books on my nightstand to attack on a night when there is no alarm clock waiting the next morning .
it 's the great source of enjoyment , inspiration , instruction , and knowledge .
reading book can make us disciplined , punctual , loyal and most importantly a very successful person in this life .
while reading books , noone can feel disturb or alone .
i think this hobby is more precious than other precious stones in the world .
it can provide us noble thoughts , ideas to work in many fields and high level of knowledge .
interesting and knowledgeable book is like best friend of the someone who likes to read .
book is one part of my beautiful life and reading book has definitelybeen my favourite hobby .
i will be able to never forget the interesting moment when my father gave me the first book which is full of colourful pictures .
i was very delighted though i difficultly understood what were there in that book .
i read wherever , whenever , and whatever kinds of books , from short story , comic , to novel and many more .
my father always encourages me to read book and he buys me many useful and interesting books .
books are like my friends who can teach me many things over the world .
they let me know of a lot of beautiful places and the history of our country and many others .
my tears come from those books and so do my happy laughters .
most free time of mine is spent on discovering books , books are very useful and so great .
reading books is the most interesting indoor activities that you should try .
it is difficult to conceive of vigorous economic growth without an efficient transport system .
although modern information technologies can reduce the demand for physical transport by facilitating teleworking and teleservices , the requirement for transport continues to increase .
there are two key factors behind this trend .
for passenger transport , the determining factor is the spectacular growth in car use .
the number of cars on european union ( eu ) roads saw an increase of three million cars each year from 1990 to 2010 , and in the next decade the eu will see a further substantial increase in its fleet .
as far as goods transport is concerned , growth is due to a large extent to changes in the european economy and its system of production .
in the last 20 years , as internal frontiers have been abolished , the eu has moved from a stock economy to a flow economy .
this phenomenon has been emphasised by the relocation of some industries , particularly those which are labour intensive , to reduce production costs , even though the production site is hundreds or even thousands of kilometres away from the final assembly plant or away from users .
however , a new imperative-sustainable development – offers an opportunity for adapting the eu，s common transport policy .
this objective , agreed by the gothenburg european council , has to be achieved by integrating environmental considerations into community policies , and shifting the balance between modes of transport lies at the heart of its strategy .
the ambitious objective can only be fully achieved by 2020 , but proposed measures are nonetheless a first essential step towards a sustainable transport system which will ideally be in place in 30 years‟ time , that is by 2040 .
the first approach would consist of focusing on road transport solely through pricing .
this option would not be accompanied by complementary measures in the other modes of transport .
in the short term it might curb the growth in road transport through the better loading ratio of goods vehicles and occupancy rates of passenger vehicles expected as a result of the increase in the price of transport .
however , the lack of measures available to revitalise other modes of transport would make it impossible for more sustainable modes of transport to take up the baton .
the second approach also concentrates on road transport pricing but is accompanied by measures to increase the efficiency of the other modes ( better quality of services , logistics , technology ) .
however , this approach does not include investment in new infrastructure , nor does it guarantee better regional cohesion .
it could help to achieve greater uncoupling than the first approach , but road transport would keep the lion‟s share of the market and continue to concentrate on saturated arteries , despite being the most polluting of the modes .
it is therefore not enough to guarantee the necessary shift of the balance .
the tallest building in europe is nearly complete .
rising above a new waterfront complex in st.petersburg , russia , the lakhta center 's tower stands at 462 meters ( 1,516 feet ) tall , making it the city 's first supertall building ( one measuring 300 meters or above ) .
the structure is now the northernmost skyscraper in the world , according to its developers .
the 87-story tower twists a full 90 degrees from its foundation to its top , like a winding needle .
this makes it one of the world 's tallest examples of a twisted skyscraper design .
its soaring height is offset by a lower mixed-use building with a 260-meter-long ( 853-foot-long ) facade.residential and commercial space will be installed up to a height of 360 meters ( 1,181 feet ) , above which an observation deck and restaurant will offer breathtaking views over the gulf of finland .
the lakhta center takes the title of europe 's tallest building from moscow 's federation tower , completed in 2017 , which stands at 374 meters ( 1,227 feet ) .
moscow is also home to five of the next six entries in the list , interrupted only by london 's shard , which was briefly the continent 's tallest in 2012 , at 310 meters ( 1,016 feet ) tall .
the firm is set to move in by the end of 2019 .
according to philip nikandrov , one of the architects involved with the project , the exterior of the building will be completed by the end of this summer , although the interior fitting will continue into 2019 .
drone images show the main tower 's impressive silhouette , which was designed to symbolize a flame -- a distinctive feature of gazprom 's logo .
every year on may 5th of the lunar calendar , some countries china , japan , korea and vietnam have mid-year festival .
in china , on this day , they celebrate a festival called dragon bloat festival .
in vietnam , the festival celebrated on may 5th is called tet doan ngo , worm-killing festivalof vietnamese .
some researchers think that the celebration has its origin in china .
there is a legend qu yuan – chinese poet who lived during the warring states period of ancient china .
in vietnam , we call him khuat nguyen .
he was a faithful person but living in the empire in decline .
he hindered the king from making some bad decisions .
other officials devised false stories about him .
the king did not follow his advice and hated him .
he was so sad and drowned himself in the mich la , china on may 5th of the lunar calendar .
chinese people regretted the person having a clear heart .
every year , on this day , people made cakes with five-color strings and dropped them to the river to offer khuat nguyen .
they tied five-color strings on the cakes in order to make fishes afraid and do not dare to eat the cakes .
they also poured rice into bamboo tubes and dropped them into the river .
the custom gradually spread through some nearby countries .
vietnamese people call this day worm-killing festival because most farmers start killing worms on their rice fields and orchards .
vietnamese ancestors had told us a story about doi truan who taught farmers how to kill a lot of worms in fruits and rice .
he offered banh gio ( a kind of pyramid sticky rice cake ) , fruits to gods in front of a house .
he told that if all farmers did the same things on the same day every year , all worms will be weaker and killed easily .
the man had disappeared after helping killing worms .
nowadays , grandparents tell their children about the stories , teach them to be grateful to ancestors and the country 's tradition .
flc chairman to increase stakes .
trinh van quyet , chairman of flc , has registered to increase his ownership in the property company by 2.1 percentage points .
he said in a recent statement he would buy 15 million shares between june 26 and july 25 to increase his stake to 23.3 percent .
with flc trading at vnd 4,200 ( 18 cents ) at the time of publishing , the acquisition will cost him around vnd 63 billion ( $ 2.7 million ) .
quyet had said last year he would spend vnd 1.5-2 trillion ( $ 65-86 million ) in 2020 to acquire more flc shares . the share price has fallen by 11 percent this year .
he has been selling his stake in flc faros , a construction arm of flc , from 51.3 percent to 4.17 percent for over vnd 900 billion ( $ 39 million ) , and resigned as chairman of the company .
an flc faros spokesperson said the divestment could mean quyet wants to focus more on the parent company and the carrier it owns , bamboo airways .
flc , a developer of resorts and golf courses , expects a loss of vnd 1.96 trillion ( $ 84 million ) this year due to the impacts of the coronavirus .
two vietnamese schools feature in global u50 ranking .
a global ranking of top 150 universities under 50 years old features two vietnamese institutions , one in hanoi and the other in hcmc .
the ranking was released wednesday by british education firm quacquarelli symonds .
the vietnam national university – ho chi minh city ( vnu-hcm ) and the vietnam national university , hanoi are included in the 101-150 place range in the qs top 50 under 50 2021 ranking .
while the university in hanoi made its debut on the listing this year , the one in hcmc was the sole vietnamese candidate in the previous listing for 2020 . it was also placed in the 101-150 range then .
the qs top 50 under 50 ranking was first published in 2012 . initially listing only 50 best universities , it tripled its range starting 2015 to include the next 100 under 50 . .
the list ranks universities based on six criteria : academic reputation , employer reputation , faculty or student ratio , citations per faculty , international faculty ratio and international student ratio .
in the latest list , the nanyang technological university in singapore ranks first , followed by the hong kong university of science and technology in hong kong and the korea advanced institute of science and technology in south korea .
the two vietnamese universities were ranked in the 801-1,000 place range in the qs world university ranking 2021 , also compiled by quacquarelli symonds , which lists the top 1,000 universities in the world .
heavy sell-off sends vn-index dropping .
a heavy sell-off hit hundreds of stocks on the hochiminh stock exchange , june 24 , dragging the vn-index down by 8.49 points , or 0.98 percent , against the session earlier , at 859.71 .
market breadth turned negative as falling stocks outnumbered rising ones by 268 to 99 . there were some 370 million shares worth vnd 5 trillion changing hands , dropping by 18.5 percent in volume and and 26 percent in value from the previous session . block deals contributed vnd 863 billion to the total value .
many bluechips lost steam , with lender stb dipping by 3 percent and seeing 11.8 million shares changing hands and housing developer vhm ending down by 2.5 percent , while steelmaker hpg , property firm nvl and lender eib stood at their reference prices .
in the bluechip group , lender mbb and jewelry company pnj bucked the falling trend , finishing the day up 0.29 percent and 1 percent , respectively .
brewery firm sab was among main drags on the southern bourse while property firm vic and dairy firm vnm saved the main index from a steep decline .
realty trading firm hqc and industrial zone developer ita plunging to the floor prices . hqc took the lead on the southern market by liquidity with 33.2 million shares traded , while 21.3 million ita shares were transacted .
at the close , the hnx-index of the hanoi stock exchange lost 0.81 percent at 113.7 points , continuing its downward trend . trade volume fell by 14.6 percent against the session earlier at 60.2 million shares worth vnd 648 billion .
coming under selling pressure , many bluechips such as lenders acb and shb , gas firm pvs and bank stock nvb ended the day down or at reference prices .
service firm klf was the most actively traded stock on the northern bourse with 4.2 million shares changing hands , followed by property firm hut with 3.6 million shares matched .
techtronic industries to expand vietnam operations .
manufacturer of cordless power equipment , techtronic industries ( tti ) , will invest an additional $ 650 million in vietnam to produce cordless appliances .
construction of the cordless power equipment plant in ho chi minh city 's hi-tech park will be completed by the third quarter of 2021 , tti vice president nate easter said at a meeting with deputy prime minister truong hoa binh on tuesday .
the hong kong-based company , which has a factory in the southern province of binh duong that began operations in 2018 and has created jobs for over 6,000 locals , will also develop a research and development center in vietnam employing 2,000 researchers and engineers , easter said .
binh said the vietnamese government prioritizes support for multinationals investing in vietnam , adding that hcmc , with a large number of universities , is capable of providing high quality human resources for tti 's projects .
tti is cooperating with local universities to look for potential recruits in the future , easter confirmed .
tti is a leading manufacturer of power equipment and appliances with 12 production plants worldwide .
most of its products , 76 percent , are supplied to north american and west european markets .
it holds 35 percent of the global market share in cordless power equipment .
insurance company to cover vnd 3.5-billion treatment cost of british pilot .
an insurance company will bear the cost of vnd 3.5 billion to treat the 91st patient , a british pilot , who was the country 's most critical case of covid-19 , at the hcmc hospital for tropical diseases .
the company has sent a payment confirmation to the hospital , paying the entire cost of treatment of the 43-year-old man from march 18 to may 22 , nguoi lao dong online reported .
a representative of the hospital said the treatment cost escalated when the patient needed the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation machine to allow his lungs and heart to improve and function properly .
the patient also suffered blood clotting disorders and the anticoagulants sold in the local market failed to treat him , the representative said , adding that , as such , the ministry of health allowed other anticoagulants from foreign markets to be imported .
the patient has been treated at cho ray hospital since may 22 and the treatment cost remains unknown .
father , son jailed for raping disabled woman .
a binh thuan province court has sentenced a father and son to three and nine years each for raping , impregnating an intellectually disabled woman .
nguyen thanh tam , 43 , was jailed for three years while his 20-year-old son nguyen huu thanh got nine years after the latter was identified as the father of the baby , the court ruled monday .
both were forced to pay vnd 70 million ( $ 3,016 ) in compensation for mental trauma and supporting the mother in raising the child .
according to the indictment , thanh and the victim were cousins .
in late 2018 , he visited her home in ham thuan nam district in the south-central binh thuan province , noting she lived alone .
thanh later forced her into a room where he raped her on two different occasions in the following days .
thanh 's father also visited the victim 's home where he continued to rape her .
tam threatened to kill her if she revealed the secret .
in mid-2019 , the victim 's mother noticed something amiss in her daughter and took her to a hospital where doctors found she was around six months pregnant .
after the victim told her mother what had happened , she called on local police to launch a criminal investigation .
in november 2019 , the victim gave birth to a boy , dna results confirming thanh to be the father .
the central institute of mental forensics in the southern dong nai province concluded the victim suffered intellectual disability with limited cognition and behavior control .
quang nam to house first recreational complex with casino .
hoi an south development jsc has unveiled its plan to open a recreational center consisting of a casino , a hotel and a golf course on june 28 , 2020 , as part of its us $ 4-billion hoiana complex covering some 1,000ha in quang nam province .
on that day , guests can enjoy cutting-edge entertainment and gaming facilities by hoiana suncity , play at vietnam 's first robert trent jones jr .
designed hoiana shores golf club or indulge in the first of four luxurious hotels managed by the rosewood hotel group – the hoiana hotel & suites .
rosewood is managing the renowned new world saigon hotel in hcmc .
according to hoiana , other parts of the complex are in different investment and construction stages .
the hoiana complex was granted a revised investment certificate in 2015 , with the main investors being the vms investment group , sun city and vinacapital .
vietnam to allow int ' l soccer betting payments via e-wallets .
the ministry of finance is preparing to allow soccer and horse racing bettors to make payments via e-wallets , bank accounts or prepaid mobile phone accounts , as part of a new legal document , for which the ministry is seeking feedback , to replace a decree over betting on horse and dog racing and international soccer events .
the prevailing regulations allow people to only place bets via mobile phones and pay for betting tickets via bank accounts .
however , with the rapid growth in technology and cashless payment methods , it is essential to expand payment methods to create favorable conditions for bettors , the ministry explained .
since each payment method has its own upside , bettors can opt to link their betting accounts with their bank accounts , e-wallets , or prepaid mobile phone subscriptions .
these payment methods can also help in terms of rewarding bettors , wherein they can get cash rewards transferred to their linked accounts by betting companies or agents and can withdraw the money in line with the prevailing regulations on e-payment .
the ministry suggested these payment accounts must be opened at cashless payment service providers or e-wallet operators in accordance with vietnam 's regulations on non-cash payment .
moreover , as per existing regulations , the betting sum of money must be at least vnd 10,000 each time , and the daily maximum amount set for each player placing a bet at a certain betting firm is vnd 1 million .
any change to the quota must be sent to the government for consideration and approval .
accordingly , the finance ministry suggested eliminating these betting limits .
instead , under the new decree , the ministry should coordinate with the relevant ministries and agencies to present plans to the prime minister on betting limits for different periods .
further , the government leader should take additional responsibility for revising the betting limits for each period in the new decree , said the ministry .
vingroup starts construction of $ 1 bln theme park in hai phong .
vinwonders is part of an entertainment , housing and eco-park project located at the intersection of three major rivers , bach dang , ruot lon and cam , with a unique ecological space and convenient transportation to the city downtown and surrounding areas .
the groundbreaking on sunday was attended by prime minister nguyen xuan phuc .
the theme park is being built on an area of 50 hectares with six indoor and outdoor entertainment zones meant for people of various age groups .
the area for children will have science , sports , virtual reality , and extreme games .
an outdoor water park has been designed to harmonize with the three rivers surrounding the island .
a safari will also be built , the first in the north .
there will be areas for shopping and restaurants serving traditional and international cuisines .
vingroup is vietnam 's largest private company by market capitalization and a leading real estate developer .
three vietnamese returning from kuwait diagnosed with covid-19 .
the ministry of health has just reported three more covid-19 patients , who returned from kuwait in mid-june , taking the country ’ s total number of confirmed cases to 352 on june 24 .
the three patients , one male and two females , are aged between 30 and 46 .
the 350th patient , a resident of thai binh province , arrived at hcmc-based tan son nhat international airport on june 16 .
he was found negative for covid-19 in the first test on june 17 after being sent to a quarantine center in ba ria-vung tau province .
the man ’ s positive test results came out on june 23 , however , and he is being treated at ba ria hospital .
the 351st and 352nd patients , residing in thanh hoa province , were taken to a quarantine center in hung yen province after they flew back to noi bai international airport in hanoi city on june 18 .
they are receiving treatment at the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district .
binh chanh begins demolishing tram chim resort .
after a long period of suspension due to the tet holiday and the coronavirus pandemic , binh chanh district in hcmc on june 23 restarted tearing down numerous facilities at gia trang quan , also known as the tram chim resort , which was illegally developed in tan quy tay commune .
a representative from the government of the commune told thanh nien online that the large-scale commercial complex was developed on land which is for agricultural purposes only .
the demolition is aimed at forcing tran thi minh trang , the owner of the resort , to restore the status of the land covering an area of over 7,260 square meters .
the authorities had earlier demanded that trang demolish the illegal portions of the resort but she remained defiant , the representative added .
at 8.00 a.m today , a working team of 200 people and vehicles were dispatched to the resort for the demolition , which is expected to be completed within one week .
tram chim resort , which was built in 2015 , comprises 65 guest rooms , 16 karaoke rooms , 13 sauna rooms , and many other facilities .
following a decision to demolish tram chim resort , the binh chanh government on november 19 , 2019 , asked 17 individuals concerned to practice self-criticism as they failed to closely cooperate and address the illegal construction , thus prolonging the entire process .
when the binh chanh government began demolishing the construction work at the resort , tran thi minh trang filed a lawsuit against the district government and demanded that it revoke the binh chanh chairman ’ s decision demanding the illegal facilities at the resort be destroyed .
trang said the demolition has caused heavy losses for her .
calling for cryptocurrency investment is illegal .
a former top police official asked local residents to stay clear of persons calling for investments in cryptocurrencies to avoid being cheated , as drives to mobilize capital for the crypto business are unlawful in vietnam .
besides breaking vietnamese laws , investors in cryptocurrencies could also face risks .
cryptocurrencies or virtual money and payments made using such money are not legally recognized in the country , according to vu hoang kien , former deputy head of the criminal police department , under the ministry of public security .
the police have cracked down on many crypto rings so far .
many investors have been lured through the simple investment procedures and interest rate as high as 90 percent per month , and have been consequently defrauded for up to hundreds of billions of dong .
some swindlers have even offered an astounding interest rate of 120 percent per month to attract investors .
kien advised locals not to be tempted by the high-interest rates in the crypto business , as this could mean going against vietnamese laws and lead to substantial debt for themselves , their families and friends .
according to nguyen nam hao from the police department for corruption , smuggling , and economic crimes , despite the many warnings issued on the matter , many locals are still investing in cryptocurrencies .
to date , only the government ’ s decree 96 stipulates administrative fines at vnd 150 million-vnd 200 million for individuals that issue , supply , and use unlawful payment methods , including bitcoins and other virtual currencies .
vietnam 13th in global covid-19 recovery ranking .
vietnam has done better than many major economies in recovering from covid-19 , ranking 13th among 184 countries and territories .
in asia , vietnam ranked fifth after thailand , taiwan , south korea and malaysia , according to the global covid-19 index updated june 16 by malaysia-based consulting firm pemandu associates in collaboration with malaysia ’ s ministry of science , technology , and innovation and the sunway group .
the index measured global economies on how well they coped with the covid-19 crisis based on recovery and severity ratings .
vietnam scored 73.3 points , with 0 the worst and 100 the best in terms of recovery rating .
the country also scored 15.4 points in terms of severity in which 100 is considered the worst and 0 the best .
heat wave forecast to hit central , northern regions .
localities in the northern and central regions are expected to brace for a heatwave early this week , from june 22-24 , with high temperatures likely rising up to 42 degrees celsius in some areas .
these regions suffer the high temperatures due to the impact of a high heat pressure in the west which expands its scale to the southeast , coupled with foehn wind , according to the national centre for hydro-meteorological weather forecasting .
the hot wave will likely send the temperatures soaring above 35 degrees celsius from 10 to 18 hours per day , in addition to the low humidity of 30 percent -50 percent .
specifically , in the northwest region , the extreme weather could kick off high temperatures in the provinces of son la and hoa binh at between 35 and 38 degrees celsius , even above 39 degrees in some areas today , june 22 .
as for the northeastern region and the capital city of hanoi , local people could experience the hottest days with temperatures ranging between 36 and 39 degrees celsius .
meanwhile , thundery showers could spread across some areas in the central highlands and southern regions , with monsoon blowing at level three . lightning , hail , and sudden squalls may happen during thundershowers .
aff cup format to remain unchanged despite vietnam suggestion .
the asean football federation has decided not to change the home-and-away format of the 2020 aff cup .
at an online aff conference on june 11 the vietnam football federation suggested the event should be played in just one or two countries if the covid-19 pandemic is not controlled across the region by the end of this year .
in vietnam , the outbreak has been controlled and there has been no community transmission for over two months , making it a favorite to be host or joint host if its proposal had been accepted .
vietnam is also the defending champion .
but the aff , after considering the suggestion , decided not to change the format , and teams will play each other at home and away just like the 2018 edition .
it said the 2022 world cup qualifiers will also take place at the end of this year with their format unchanged , which is playing home and away matches , so it would be unreasonable for aff to change the format of their event .
elaborating on plans to transport the country 's most critical patient , the 91st one , back to his hometown in scotland , the hcmc-based cho ray hospital suggested he buy a business-class ticket and be accompanied by a medical worker on his journey .
cho ray hospital details out plans to transport patient 91 home .
the cost for his repatriation trip will not be high and can be paid either by insurance companies , 919 flying company .
doctor nguyen tri thuc , director of the hospital , told tuoi tre online on june 20 , that the 43-year-old british pilot can breathe on his own without relying on a ventilator and communicate normally .
however , the patient needs more time to recover motion , the doctor noted .
the ministry of health said that before leaving the hospital , the health of the patient would be carefully examined next week .
new zealand embassy opens free supermarket in hanoi industrial park .
the new zealand embassy opened a free supermarket at thang long industrial park on saturday to benefit 1,500 workers there affected by the covid-19 pandemic .
at the supermarket in dong anh district , a person is allowed to pick up for free essentials like rice , eggs , cereals , vegetables , instant noodles , face masks , and sanitizers worth up to vnd 200,000 ( $ 8.6 ) .
the supermarket has been set up by the embassy in collaboration with the vietnam general confederation of labour and the international labour organization ( ilo ) in vietnam , according to a release from the embassy .
new zealand ambassador wendy matthews said at the opening ceremony the project shows the unity between new zealand and vietnam .
she said the supermarrket is a great idea to help reducing the economic effects caused by the pandemic for workers at the park and their families .
new zealand and vietnam celebrate the 45th anniversary of bilateral diplomatic relations this year .
in recent years their ties have developed strongly and steadily across diverse fields , from political aspects to trade , investment , and education .
in the year to the end of march , bilateral trade turnover hit nearly $ 1.1 billion , up 12 percent year-on-year .
covid-19 has spread to more than 210 countries and territories , infecting more than 8,7 million people and killing over 462000 .
both new zealand and vietnam have been praised as role models in the fight against this pandemic .
vietnam has had 349 cases and zero deaths , while new zealand has reported 1161 cases and 22 deaths .
hanoi police have detained a 65-year-old man who has admitted to touching a young boy ’ s genitals in an elevator .
the boy ’ s age and identity have not been disclosed .
duong the hung is being detained at a police station in hanoi ’ s hai ba trung district pending an investigation into the incident .
hung is a resident at the 25 lac trung apartment building in vinh tuy ward .
on wednesday night , a family living in the same complex reported that their son had been touched in his genitals by a man in an apartment elevator .
police and building managers later identified the culprit as hung .
hung , a post-graduate , has admitted to his action .
in a similar case this week in hanoi , a man was caught by an elevator camera kicking a six-year-old boy in the genitals .
the boy ’ s parents filed a police complaint after viewing camera footage from their apartment complex in dai mo ward , bac tu liem district .
adults engaging in any lewd or lascivious act with people under 16 face jail terms of six months to three years in vietnam .
floods kill runner of dalat ultra trail 2020 .
a runner of the ultra trail 2020 international marathon , which is taking place in the central highlands city of dalat , was found dead this afternoon , june 20 after he was swept away by floodwaters triggered by downpours .
the victim , identified as thai don thanh , was running across a section of the golden stream in lac duong district ’ s da sal commune when the 40-year-old resident of hcmc met with the accident , sai gon giai phong news site reported .
the government of lac duong district told tuoi tre online that due to the heavy rain on the same day , floodwater levels rose sharply , while the runners were competing in the rain .
after the accident had occurred , the organizers of the marathon suspended the competition and used vehicles to transport runners back to the starting point .
over 6200 local and foreign runners are joining the dalat ultra trail 2020 .
civil servants ’ salaries wo n't be raised from july 1 .
the national assembly has decided against raising the basic salaries of civil servants and their retirement pensions from july 1 , 2020 , at its meeting on june 19 , as the country is still dealing with the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic .
the national assembly standing committee has tasked the government with considering deferring the increase in the civil servants ’ basic salaries to a more appropriate date based on the current situation as well as cutting convention and mission trip costs by at least 70 percent .
the cut will not be applicable to the ministries of national defense , foreign affairs , public security and health , and expenses for the asean and aipa chairmanship year .
the government was also asked to curtail 10 percent of other regular expenses until the end of this year .
vietnam to have high-speed undersea cable .
an undersea cable system—the asia direct cable ( adc ) —that is set to span multiple countries including vietnam with a bandwidth of over 140 tbps , three times higher than the current cable apg , is slated for completion in the fourth quarter of 2022 .
the adc is designed to have many pairs of fiber optics and transmit big data at breakneck speeds across vietnam , china , japan , the philippines , singapore and thailand , the local media reported .
the 9,400 kilometer international submarine cable will become the cable line with the highest bandwidth in vietnam .
adc is expected to support advanced technologies such as 5g , artificial intelligence and internet of things-related services , contributing to expanding the country ’ s connection network with other countries in the region .
doan dai phong , deputy general director of viettel business solutions , told thanh nien online that as an investor in the construction of adc , viettel is enhancing its efforts to connect vietnam to the world via various cable systems .
the adc will play a key role in fostering the development of advanced technologies in the country .
it is the fifth undersea cable viettel has invested in over the past few years , after aae-1 , tgn-ia and aag in vung tau city and apg in danang city .
viettel will also build a cable landing station for adc in quy nhon city .
ships banned from travelling on red river section due to bomb .
ships and boats have been banned from traveling along a section of the red river near long bien bridge in hanoi city after a wartime bomb was detected along the section , according to the northern inland waterways subdepartment .
it was discovered after some fishermen found a suspicious object , which was similar to a bomb and 800 meters away from long bien bridge , and informed the authorities .
as such , the subdepartment dispatched a working team to the site to examine it and reported the issue to the long bien military command and the hanoi capital high command .
the subdepartment cordoned off the river section on june 17 to prevent ships and boats from approaching the area to ensure the safety of residents , waterway users and facilitate competent forces to examine and fish out the object , which is 1.6 meters long and 35 centimeters in diameter .
nguyen cong minh , head of the north inland waterways subdepartment , told tuoi tre online on june 18 that the object was identified as an unexploded bomb , which had been hurled by the us air force during the war , adding that the competent agencies are guarding the river section .
in november 2017 , military forces removed and defused a two-meter wartime bomb , which was five meters away from long bien bridge .
samsung to shift major portion of monitor production from china to hcmc .
samsung vina electronics announced on june 19 that a major portion of samsung ’ s monitor production would be shifted from china to the samsung hcmc ce complex at the saigon hi-tech park in district 9 , hcmc , this year .
the south korean tech giant is developing a production chain for over 40 monitor models at its factory in hcmc . once the shift is complete , vietnam will become one of the largest suppliers of samsung monitors in the world , according to tuoi tre newspaper .
a samsung representative said the shift will help vietnamese consumers become the first to use the company ’ s latest monitors , while the country will also help samsung monitors increase their market presence in southeast asia .
data from global market intelligence firm idc indicated that samsung is the leading producer of monitors in vietnam , with samsung monitors of 24 inches or larger accounting for 34 percent of the vietnamese market in the first quarter of 2020 .
there is no evidence that vietnamese customs officials have received bribes from japanese company tenma as alleged by japanese news reports .
deputy director-general of vietnam customs nguyen duong thai said thursday that preliminary investigations have found no evidence that tax money was lost to alleged bribery by plastic appliances maker tenma vietnam .
authorities are still investigating the allegation that the company , based in the northern province of bac ninh , bribed vietnamese officials jpy25 million ( $ 215000 ) to reduce its tax liability .
further information was needed from japanese authorities , thai said .
eleven customs and tax officials related to the allegations have resumed work after a 15-day suspension .
to avoid the tax , the company paid a senior customs official vnd 2 billion ( $ 86,000 ) in cash .
the newspaper also reported that in august 2019 bac ninh tax authorities had asked tenma to pay tax dues , including corporate income tax , of jpy89 million ( $ 826,400 ) .
the company had then paid vnd 3 billion ( $ 129,000 ) in cash to tax officials to get the amount reduced to $ 24,300 .
bac ninh customs and tax officials have denied the allegations .
tenma vietnam continues to operate normally at the que vo industrial park in bac ninh .
established in 2007 , it produces plastic parts for household goods and vehicles .
vietnam imports 500 live pigs from thailand .
the first batch of 500 live pigs weighing 90-130 kilograms each was transported by road from thailand to nghe an province ’ s nghia dan district on june 18 .
the workers at the veterinary subdepartment for region 3 have instructed the owner of the batch on how to adopt disinfection and sterilization methods , monitor the health of these pigs and take their samples for testing .
if the test results come back negative for the coronavirus within five days , the competent forces will issue quarantine certificates to the importer so it can transport these live pigs to slaughtering facilities .
nguyen van thanh , director of thanh do nghe an company , said that following the first batch , the firm will import some 4,000-5,000 live pigs to vietnam each day .
the price of the pigs is expected at vnd 80,000 per kilogram .
many firms expect the supply of live pigs to remain stable and adequate enough to serve slaughterhouses and customers , according to la duc quynh , chairman of duc tin agricultural products jsc , which is the owner of the ha nam cattle and poultry wholesale market .
speaking of the requirements for live pig imports , le dinh hue , head of the veterinary subdepartment for region 3 , said that live pigs must be quarantined and transported via special-use vehicles , which must be sterilized .
from june 12 , vietnam ’ s eligible importers are allowed to import live pigs from thailand and as many as 15 firms have registered to import pigs from thailand to vietnam .
three vietnamese women among asia 's top 100 scientists .
three female vietnamese scientists have been named in the list of 100 most outstanding researchers of 2020 by singapore ’ s asian scientist magazine .
the second vietnamese scientist to make the list is dr. tran thi hong hanh , a researcher at the vietnam academy for science and technology .
mrs. hanh has been hailed for her research on the use of finger chromatography as a means of assessing the quality of medicinal herbs sold commercially throughout the nation .
the third vietnamese scientist on this year ’ s list is dr. pham thi thu ha , attached to hcmc-based ton duc thang university .
her research is renowned for utilizing molecular markers as a means of developing high-yielding salt-tolerant rice varieties in affected areas throughout the mekong delta .
last year , two vietnamese scientists , pediatric endoscopic surgeon nguyen thanh liem and biomedical engineer nguyen thi hiep made it into the top 100 asian scientists list drawn up by the singaporean magazine .
every year since 2016 , asian scientist has been compiling a list of asia ’ s most outstanding researchers across a range of scientific disciplines .
asian scientist is an award-winning science and technology magazine that highlights research and development news stories from asia to a global audience .
it is published by a team of professional science and medical journalists , with active contributors from industry and academia .
british pilot no longer needs lung transplant .
a lung transplant considered for vietnam 's most critically ill covid-19 patient , a british pilot , is no longer necessary following a recovery .
luong ngoc khue , head of the ministry of health 's department of diagnosis and treatment , said wednesday the 43-year-old man in hcmc , who beat covid-19 after two months but remains under treatment due to lung infection , is now recovering well and can breathe on his own .
he 's fully conscious and capable of coherent verbal communication , khue said .
sức mạnh cơ bắp chân tay và chức năng hô hấp của anh đã hồi phục .
in may , the health ministry considered a lung transplant for the british pilot as his condition at the time was much more severe .
computed tomography scan results showed that fibrosis had solidified most of his lungs , and he constantly relied on ecmo ( extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ) to stay alive .
but as his condition progressed , his lungs slowly got better . he was finally taken off ventilators last week , and has breathed on his own since .
he has now been in treatment for three months , the longest period for any covid-19 patient in vietnam .
the country has recorded 335 covid-19 cases so far , with only ten active infections left and no deaths . it has gone over two months without community transmission .
earthquake hits lai chau for third time in three days .
muong te district in the northern mountainous province of lai chau was struck by a 2.5-magnitude earthquake at 3:47 a.m this morning , june 17 , making it the third earthquake to hit the province in three days .
the epicenter of the earthquake was located some 13 kilometers underground , vnexpress news site reported . nguyen xuan anh , director of the institute of geophysics , said the province was likely to witness aftershocks and larger earthquakes in the coming time .
mai van thach , chairman of the district , said the residents experienced dozens of tremors since yesterday afternoon .
on june 15 , a 3,3-magnitude earthquake struck the district at 11:43 p.m , with its epicenter located some 8 kilometers underground .
according to nguyen xuan anh , earthquakes often occur in lai chau because the province is located on a fault line . the largest earthquake of 6.8 magnitude was reported in the province in 1983 .
chinese contractor withdraws demand for us $ 50m for hanoi railway project .
following meetings between chinese contractor china railway 6 bureau group and the vietnamese transport authority , the chinese contractor has withdrawn its request of us $ 50 million for the operation of the cat linh-ha dong urban railway project in hanoi .
the vietnamese transport authority fully understands the obstacles encountered by the chinese contractor but the payment of this sum of money is unjustifiable .
the vietnamese side only makes payments based on the regulations of the engineering procurement and construction contract and in line with vietnam ’ s laws , said deputy minister of transport nguyen ngoc dong .
in addition , the transport ministry has requested the relevant agencies to expedite the project so it can be put into service this year , as requested by the prime minister .
regarding the return of chinese personnel to vietnam after travel restrictions due to covid-19 were eased , deputy minister dong confirmed that 28 chinese experts have arrived in vietnam .
the remaining 100 chinese personnel are following certain procedures to return to the country .
the chinese experts are expected to enter vietnam by train through the northern province of lao cai .
upon arrival , they must make health declarations , undergo health checkups and be disinfected before moving to hanoi to be quarantined for 14 days .
aside from them , three french consulting experts are yet to arrive in vietnam due to the travel restrictions . the transport ministry is working with the vietnamese embassy in france to facilitate their return .
according to the transport official , the french experts play a crucial role in the project , and the trial operation of the railway depends on the evaluation of the french team .
woman falls off plane stairs at hcmc airport , dies .
a 50-year-old woman died tuesday after she slipped off a plane 's stairs in hcmc and fell to the ground a day earlier .
the woman , whose identity has not been revealed , had flown with her family on vietnam airlines flight vn1379 from hue in central vietnam to the tan son nhat airport in hcmc on monday .
when she was getting off the plane on its stairs , she fell , hit her head and bled from a head injury .
she was taken to the military hospital 175 soon after , but died on tuesday , according to a press release from the national flag carrier .
at the time of the incident , the ramp was dry . it was not raining that day .
the national carrier said the incident was deeply regrettable , adding that it was cooperating with authorities to figure out the cause of the accident and undertake procedures to ensure the rights of passengers .
ministry considers postponing school opening day to august 15 .
the ministry of education and training is considering deferring the first day of the 2020-2021 school year until august 15 instead of august 1 and extending the summer vacation for students , according to the vnexpress news site .
according to the initial plan , the first day of school for kindergartens , high schools and vocational schools was slated for august 1 , 2020 .
the opening ceremony for the new school year would be held on september 5 , 2020 .
however , due to the coronavirus pandemic , the 2019-2020 academic year will end on july 15 , one and a half months later than scheduled .
therefore , if the 2020-2021 academic year begins on august 1 as initially planned , the summer vacation will only be for two weeks .
although the 2019-2020 school year is scheduled to end on july 15 , some provinces and cities such as nghe an have accelerated the study program to end the school year before july , thus ensuring students enjoy a longer vacation .
in hanoi , senior high schools such as nguyen du and trung vuong are holding the final exams for students , while nguyen tat thanh high school and hus high school for gifted students have already ended the 2019-2020 school year .
vietjet to establish e-wallet business .
the board of local low-cost carrier vietjet has approved the establishment of an e-wallet subsidiary with a charter capital of vnd 50 billion , in which vietjet will hold a 51 percent stake .
the board also tasked vietjet ’ s vice general director and chief financial officer ho ngoc yen phuong with implementing essential procedures for the capital contribution in order to set up the new business .
the special deals will apply to passengers who book soft seats or air-conditioned six-bed compartments and buy tickets three days ahead of departure with specific coach and seat numbers .
passengers who want to return the purchased tickets will have to pay a fee equivalent to 50 percent of the price of the tickets .
theo bộ giao thông vận tải , ngành đường sắt đất nước đã phải chịu tổng thiệt hại trị giá 90 tỷ đồng tính đến cuối tháng 3 do đình chỉ 152 chuyến tàu chở khách và vận chuyển hàng hóa để hạn chế sự lây lan của chủng virus corona .
now that the social-distancing order has been lifted , the railway and tourism authorities have introduced many measures to promote the growth of the sectors .
british covid-19 patient able to stand up .
a 43-year-old british pilot , who is the most critical covid-19 patient in vietnam , is now able to stand up and is attempting to walk , stated a representative of cho ray hospital on june 15 .
his recovery is much faster than predicted by doctors .
his leg muscles have recovered by 80 percent , while his arms can now almost fully function .
he no longer relies on the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation machine or ventilator .
the pilot was taken to hcmc hospital for tropical diseases on march 18 and then transferred to cho ray hospital late last month .
he has spent almost three months in hospital due to the virus .
as of 6 a.m this morning , june 16 , vietnam had reported no new covid-19 cases , keeping the country ’ s total number of confirmed cases unchanged at 334 .
according to the ministry of health , some 97 percent of patients have fully recovered .
six patients are still being treated , while five have tested negative for covid-19 one to three times .
pilot error reason for vietjet plane skidding off runway .
the aviation incident involving a vietjet passenger aircraft skidding off a runway in hcmc last weekend as serious , transport minister nguyen van the noted that it was mainly the fault of the pilot .
amid the heavy downpour and strong winds on sunday afternoon , the pilot should have accurately evaluated the weather conditions before landing to ensure safety .
he received instructions from air traffic controllers while landing , but he has the right to decide whether to land or not .
he could have asked for permission to divert the plane and land at another airport , the minister told the local media on the sidelines of the ninth session of the 14th national assembly on june 15 .
the official noted that an investigation team from the civil aviation administration of vietnam ( caav ) would decode the plane ’ s black box to determine why the pilot decided to touch down amid the poor weather conditions .
commenting on a caav press release stating that the weather was the leading cause of the incident , minister the said the caav investigators would work to determine the exact cause of the accident and announce their final decision .
the two foreign pilots operating the plane that skidded off the runway have been suspended from service and their licenses have been seized pending the investigation .
samsung to open first five-star resort in vietnam .
shilla monogram quangnam danang , the first resort of the shilla hotels & resorts , a member of the samsung group , will begin operations in vietnam on june 26 on the road linking danang city and hoi an city .
a representative at the five-star resort stressed that opening the resort during this time is an opportunity for shilla monogram quangnam danang because tourists currently prefer traveling in small groups and choosing peaceful destinations .
the resort has 309 rooms and four outdoor swimming pools to cater to the needs of various guests , from children to adults and the elderly .
they also demand higher-quality services , hygiene standards and safety .
tcg land , a member of the thanh cong group , is the strategic partner of the shilla in vietnam . at shilla monogram quangnam danang , tcg land is the investor , while the shilla plays the management role .
after quang nam , the shilla hotels & resorts will set up the five-star resort across cities in the united states , indonesia and vietnam .
founded in march 1979 , the shilla hotels & resorts now owns luxurious hotels and resorts such as the shilla seoul and the shilla jeju and 12 luxury shilla stay hotels worldwide .
shilla monogram quangnam danang marks its debut entry into the market .
shilla monogram is the luxury brand of the shilla hotels & resorts , apart from the shilla and the shilla stay brands .
jetstar pacific to rebrand as pacific airlines .
jetstar pacific will adopt a new logo and brand identity inspired by the livery of vna .
jetstar pacific will also switch its reservation system from navitaire to sabre , which is currently used by vna , to synchronize its flight network , booking procedures and customer features with those of vna .
it will also enable the two airlines to expand their scale of operation , implement long-term strategies and consolidate the leading position of the vietnam airlines group in the local aviation market , quang added .
vinamilk to set up coffee chain .
dairy giant vinamilk , which set up a hi-café outlet in ho chi minh city last year , plans to expand it into a chain .
the company ’ s board recently sought shareholders ’ permission to add nine new businesses to its portfolio , including beverage and food sales .
it plans to open more hi-café outlets starting this year .
hi-café will come up against local brands highlands coffee , the coffee house , phuc long , and trung nguyen , and foreign brand starbucks , which together have hundreds of stores across the country .
masan to buy out vinacafe .
food conglomerate masan is set to buy the remaining 1,5 percent stake in vinacafe bien hoa jsc to raise its ownership to 100 percent .
vinacafe , which was established in 1968 , has led the instant coffee market for a long time .
vietjet pilots ’ licenses seized after the accident .
the civil aviation authority of vietnam ( caav ) has suspended two foreign pilots from work and seized their licenses after a vietjet aircraft skidded off the runway while landing in hcmc yesterday afternoon .
it also suspended six flight attendants and formed a team to investigate the incident .
however , the aircraft was not pulled to the airport ’ s apron until 8:30 p.m on the day as technical staff had to elevate the plane to replace its blown-out tyre and conduct other checks .
the incident affected hundreds of flights to and from the airport .
according to a captain who is a flight instructor , similar landing incidents have occurred during bad weather conditions such as heavy rain and strong winds .
the captain explained that the pilot could have been unable to control the plane in the right direction due to the heavy downpour and tailwind , leading to it sliding off the runway .
moreover , if the pilot suddenly hits the brakes , it could cause possible damage to the nose gear and the plane can skid off the runway as a result .
early this morning , the plane was towed away from the scene of the incident .
ippg wins bid for vnd 6.83-trillion project on phu quoc .
billionaire johnathan hanh nguyen ’ s imex pan pacific group has won the bid to invest in a vnd 6.83 trillion ( us $ 293 million ) duty-free zone on phu quoc island off the coast of kien giang province , nguoi lao dong newspaper reported .
the project will cover 100 hectares in bai vong hamlet , ham ninh commune , phu quoc district , and is scheduled for completion five years after it begins construction .
the duty-free zone is expected to diversify tourism services on phu quoc .
solar eclipse next week to be visible in vietnam .
vietnam will see part of an annular eclipse , commonly referred to as a ring of fire , on june 21 .
people in hanoi can see 71 percent of the eclipse and those in ho chi minh city , 36 percent .
the eclipse will begin in vietnam at 1:16 p.m .
and reach its peak at around 2:55 p.m before ending at 4:18 p.m .
this will be one of two solar eclipses in 2020 .
the second , a total eclipse on december 14 , will be visible from south america .
a solar eclipse occurs when the disk of the moon appears to cross in front of the disk of the sun .
an annular eclipse occurs when the sun appears as a bright ring , or annulus , surrounding the dark disk of the moon .
the last solar eclipse seen in vietnam was an annular eclipse on december 26 last year .
scientists have sounded the warning : sky watchers should only see the eclipse indirectly or with proper glasses to prevent retinal burns .
hcmc hires private firm to build 372 asean standard restrooms .
a private company has struck deals to build and maintain 372 restrooms of asean public toilet standards at many public spots in hcmc .
in return for its investment , estimated at around vnd 500 million ( $ 21,500 ) for each facility , the company will be allowed to set up and run a convenience store in the vicinity .
agreements to this effect have been reached between district authorities and the city-based tien phong tech jsc .
of the total , 283 restrooms will be established at spots chosen by districts , and 89 at bus stations .
so far , several restrooms of this type have been set up on a pilot basis around the city , including one at the corner of tu xuong and cach mang thang tam streets in district 3 .
the restroom is a stainless steel affair with doors that open by pressing a button and close automatically after the user has entered the cabin .
inside it is equipped with soap , hand sanitizer , and hand dryer , all designed to operate automatically .
one cabin covers a floor area of 70 square meters .
the investor is allowed to open a booth to sell convenience goods next to the restroom to recover the investment capital .
the restrooms are designed and produced exclusively by tien phong tech .
the surrounding areas of the toilet should be kept clean , safe and provide easy access for visitors , and the exterior and interior design can either use traditional or modern architecture .
each facility should have at least one toilet for the disabled with bigger doors for wheel chair access and railings for support .
hcmc has assigned district-level authorities to approve private investments in public toilets and cut the time taken for processing it .
last month , the municipal environment department issued a guidance document saying that the authorities will provide land plots for the investors to set up public restrooms , and in return , the investors will be allowed to run certain services alongside to recover their investment .
aircraft skids off runway in hcmc amid heavy rains .
a vietjet air plane skidded off the runway at tan son nhat international airport in ho chi minh city on saturday afternoon as it was landing in heavy rains .
the plane flew in from phu quoc island off the southern coast and touched down at tan son nhat at 12:24 p.m .
when it was raining heavily .
it skidded off the runway and into the grass field on the side .
functional forces at the airport are dealing with the aftermath .
vietjet has confirmed the incident , announcing that all passengers are safe and have been brought out of the plane .
there are no damages for the plane or the runway , it said .
the carrier blamed the heavy rains and strong winds for the accident .
several flights to the city in the afternoon had to circle and could not land .
with storm nuri forming over the east sea early on saturday , heavy rains and strong winds have lashed many places in southern vietnam , including hcmc , since the afternoon of saturday , according to the southern region hydrology meteorology forecast station .
falling tree branches due to heavy rains killed one man and injured at least another in the city on saturday .
the storm is heading northward toward the southern coast of china .
vn-index falls 0.44 percent even though bluechips bounce back .
many bluechips on the local stock market bounced back today , june 12 , but the vn-index of the hochiminh stock exchange still closed the day down 0.44 percent due to strong selling pressure .
the benchmark vn-index dropped to approximately 840 points early morning but added 22 points in the afternoon thanks to strong demand for bluechips .
vn-index falls 0.44 percent , or 3.85 points , at 863.52 points .
losing stocks outnumbered winners by 257 to 125 .
stock trade fell by 12.37 percent in volume and 22.42 percent in value from the previous session to over 620 million shares worth a combined vnd 7.76 trillion .
most bank stocks gained ground , with stb shooting up to the ceiling price at vnd 11,800 per share , while bid , ctg and tcb advanced 4.9 percent , 1.5 percent and 1.2 percent to vnd 42,500 , vnd 23,300 and vnd 21,150 per share , respectively .
other bluechips that bounced back today were petroleum stock gas , steelmaker hpg , mobile phone retailer mwg and technology firm fpt , which added 2.8 percent , 3.9 percent , 3.4 percent and 2.2 percent , respectively .
dairy producer vnm , lender vcb and housing developer vhm were the main drags of the index , dipping 3.15 percent , 2.73 percent and 1.96 percent , respectively .
real estate stock hqc led the southern market by liquidity with 81.74 million shares changing hands , followed by construction firm ros with 56.1 million shares and industrial zone developer ita with nearly 40 million shares .
on the hanoi stock exchange , although losing stocks outnumbered winners by 86 to 68 , the hnx-index closed the day up 0.73 percent , or 0.85 point , to 116.91 points .
there were 80.36 million shares worth more than vnd 723 billion traded on the northern market , down 35.25 percent in volume and 40.48 percent in value against the previous session .
bank stock shb surged 3.2 percent to vnd 16,000 per share , while securities company shs shot up to the ceiling price at vnd 12,800 per share and detergent producer dgc expanded 4.62 percent to vnd 38,500 per share .
property group hut led the northern market by liquidity with nearly 15 million shares traded at vnd 2,700 per share , followed by petroleum stocks pvs with 7.51 million shares and lender acb with 6.65 million shares .
man returning from china positive for covid-19 .
a man returning from china via mong cai border gate in quang ninh province was confirmed positive for the coronavirus on june 13 .
the 29-year-old man , the 334th case in the country , is from hcmc ’ s binh tan district .
he went to china on january 14 and was stuck there for five months due to travel restrictions .
on may 31 , when lockdown measures have been relaxed , he flew from china ’ s hubei province to nanning and then entered vietnam via mong cai in the northern province of quang ninh .
he was taken to a centralized quarantine area in mong cai .
his first covid-19 test taken by quang ninh ’ s center for disease control and prevention on june 3 showed he was negative with covid-19 .
however , the second test on june 11 was positive .
the man is being treated at the national hospital for tropical diseases in hanoi .
of the 334 covid-19 patients recorded in vietnam , 323 have recovered .
five killed after truck crashes into market .
five people were killed and another five injured in a fatal accident this morning , june 13 , as a truck ploughed into a local wet market in dak nong province after colliding with several vehicles , confirmed a local official .
while passing through dak r ’ la commune in dak nong province ’ s dak mil district on ho chi minh highway at some 7 a.m , the truck suddenly crashed into another truck , a farm vehicle and several motorbikes parked by the side of the street , before ploughing into the local market .
the crash left three people dead on the spot , with two breathing their last on the way to hospital .
the five injured were sent to two local hospitals for treatment .
all of the deceased and injured are women , who were mostly vendors at the market .
on being nofitied of the accident , local officials were dispatched to the scene to deal with the aftermath .
the police have launched an investigation to determine the cause of the fatal accident .
vietnam begins importing live pigs from thailand .
vietnam has given the green light for the import of pigs from thailand for the purposes of both farming and slaughter from june 12 to bring down domestic pork prices that have skyrocketed due to the scarcity caused by the african swine fever epidemic .
thailand was chosen as the supplier as its wholesale prices of hogs currently range between vnd 55,000 and vnd 60,000 per kilo , lower than vietnam ’ s current prices averaging vnd 95,000 per kilogram .
pham tran sum , director of viet duc international nutrition company , informed nguoi lao dong online that the firm is finalizing dossiers for the import of pigs for slaughter in vietnam and is expected to receive the first batch of 2,000 pigs early next week .
following the information , local pig prices dropped slightly to vnd 86,000 to vnd 87,000 per kilo .
when thai pork is launched in the market , domestic prices may fall to below vnd 85,000 a kilo , sum noted .
on june 11 , agriculture and rural development deputy minister phung duc tien tasked the animal health department with issuing detailed guidelines on quarantine measures for the imported pigs in line with existing regulations to prevent diseases and ensure the safety of domestic herds .
the department director is also responsible for ensuring coordination with inter-sector agencies at ports of entry and local authorities to strictly manage the live imports .
sailor is vietnam ’ s latest covid-19 patient .
a crew member of the pacific vung tau ship operating in malaysia tested positive for covid-19 , making him the 333rd patient and taking vietnam ’ s total infections to 333 , the health ministry said in a statement last night .
the 37-year-old resident of the southern province of ba ria-vung tau arrived at vung tau port from malaysia on may 30 and was immediately sent to a local quarantine center .
his first test taken on may 31 showed he was negative for the novel coronavirus .
however , the second test result came back positive on june 11 just as he was preparing to leave the quarantine facility .
he is undergoing treatment at ba ria hospital .
as of this morning , june 13 , vietnam reported 333 covid-19 cases .
of the total , 323 patients have made a complete recovery , with the two latest recovered cases announced yesterday .
vinfast opens office in australia .
vietnamese carmaker vinfast has entered the australian market by opening a research and development center in melbourne on june 11 as part of its strategic plan to go global .
vinfast australia is located next to melbourne ’ s financial and economic center and monash university , in addition to many large-scale research facilities .
such a prime location is convenient for research development and business activities .
the australia-based office will research and develop new automobile models including gasoline-driven and electric cars , as well as lay the foundation for the carmaker ’ s global expansion , realizing its goal to become a global car brand by connecting with leading suppliers .
the new office employs some one hundred official employees , who are high-profile experts and engineers from the world 's leading automobile corporations such as gm , toyota , ford and jaguar land rover .
being considered a “ headquarters ” of many major car manufacturers including toyota , ford , mitsubishi and gm , melbourne has several existing facilities , supply chains and manpower with a wealth of experience in the automobile industry .
vinfast , a subsidiary of vietnamese conglomerate vingroup , tested its first electric car in the capital city of hanoi late last month to prepare for the new model ’ s debut by the end of the year .
the carmaker is set to launch the new electric model at the los angeles auto show in the united states in november .
virtual jokes , real consequences .
last month , news about actor tran thanh taking drugs with some of his celebrity friends were simmering among vietnamese netizens .
the information was posted on facebook with screenshots of a conversation between a group of friends .
several hours later , the joke post was removed after thousands of people had viewed it .
the actor , an accidental victim of online rumors , decided to meet the women responsible for the post , in the presence of his lawyer .
`` i do not know you .
you made up a story and spread it on the internet , that is intentionally wrong , trấn thành told the supposed culprits last week .
tran thanh is among dozens of vietnamese celebrities suddenly faced with the hurdles of rumors and misinformation spread via social media .
death hoaxes are some of the most popular tricks .
two months ago , a facebooker posted photos of model truong my nhan depicting a deadly traffic accident , causing netizens to think her dead .
in 2018 , singer nhat kim anh was said to be a drug addict and sleep with every man in showbiz . .
kim anh had to ask local police to investigate the woman responsible for the rumor .
celebrities are the first victims of news about themselves spread on the internet , which can cause scandals and directly affect their commercial activities .
according to actor tran thanh , 10 companies he has collaborated with asked for an explanation last week after rumors about him using drugs made the virtual airwaves .
two other brands halted negotiations over new advertising contracts .
how can they sign a contract if my reputation is ruined ? it affects my life and family , tran thanh said .
many artists have shared their frustration and worries , including actor van anh and his wife who were said to be divorced after faking their marriage .
in april , local government decided to slap fines on those who post false , slanderous or lurid content online .
a new decree regulates fines of between vnd 10-20 million ( $ 434 - 868 ) for taking advantage of social networks to provide fake information , slander or insult agencies and organizations , and lower the honor or dignity of individuals .
trấn thành has asked his lawyer to consider suing those who made up the rumors and report the case to local police .
in 2015 , hanoi police apprehended tran thi huong giang , 37 , residing in ba dinh district , after she created several facebook accounts to post and share fake news on local celebrities , calling it truth conveying . .
the truth is , about half of hanoi and saigon residents encounter fake news at least once a week , according to a survey by indochina research last year .
many are concerned about the impact of misinformation on their daily lives .
rumors about celebrities , spread with the speed of light on the internet .
the women accusing actor tran thanh of sniffing cocaine on facebook said they were making a joke and apologized .
meanwhile , the person spreading rumors about singer nhat kim anh tried to deny her actions , saying her account was hacked .
tran thanh is the first vietnamese celeb to take legal action against those sharing rumors about his personal life , with support from colleagues , many of whom had previously chosen to keep silent .
proposal to allow five days off for national day holiday rejected .
minister of labor , invalids and social affairs dao ngoc dung has given multiple reasons for rejecting a proposal to increase the number of days off to five for vietnam 's national day holiday on september 2 .
minister dung told the local media on the sidelines of the ongoing sitting of the 14th national assembly on june 10 that even though the proposal is aimed at boosting the tourism sector , it is necessary to carefully consider other aspects and assess its impact .
this year , national day is in the middle of the week , leading to a wide gap between the holiday and the weekend , he noted , adding that receiving compensation for the days off is unreasonable .
over the past few months , as vietnam adopted various covid-19 prevention and control measures and issued the social distancing order , employees and students have had several weeks off .
it is now high time for the country to both prevent and fight the coronavirus and focus on getting the manufacturing sector back on track and recovering the labor market to foster economic growth .
the government can only allow the two million public employees to take days off for the holiday , a trivial number compared with the 55 million active laborers .
if the prime minister passes the proposal , the tourism sector will not see significant benefits , said minister dung .
apart from this , between september 3 and 5 , students normally start their new academic year .
for these reasons , the ministry and i have objected to the proposal to allow five days off for the upcoming national day holiday .
i had discussed the proposal with the prime minister and he agreed with my opinion , said minister dung .
tourism authorities had previously proposed that the government extend the national day holiday on september 2 by four days to stimulate the tourism sector after covid-19 .
dolphin can swim up to 35 miles per hour .
the fastest human swimmer can swim at 6 mile per hour .
the fastest mammal- the dolphin-can swim up to 35 miles per hour .
butterflies taste with their feet .
a butterfly 's sense of taste is coordinated by chemoreceptors on the tarsi , which work only on contact , and are used to determine whether an egg-laying insect 's offspring will be able to feed on a leaf before eggs are laid on it .
they have taste sensors on their feet , and by standing on a leaf , they can taste it to see if their caterpillars can eat it .
most adult butterflies ca n't bite or chew .
they eat mainly liquids like nectar , sap , juices from fruits , etc .
the blue whale 's whistle is the loudest noise !
blue whales mostly emit very loud , highly structured , repetitive low-frequency rumbling sounds that can travel for many miles underwater .
these songs may be used for communicating with other blue whales , especially in order to attract and find mates .
the call of the blue whale reaches levels up to 188 decibels .
this extraordinarily loud whistle can be heard for hundreds of miles underwater .
theoretical calculations by roger payne and douglas webb ( from the 1970′s ) predicted that the loudest whale sounds might be transmitted across an entire ocean .
the blue whale is much louder than a jet , which reaches only 140 decibels ! human shouting is 70 decibels . sounds over 120 decibels are painful to human ears .
mosquitoes are attracted to the color blue twice as much as to any other colors .
there are two kinds of pandas .
did you know there are two kinds of panda ? there is a long-tailed himalayan carnivore that looks like a raccoon and there is a giant panda bear that lives in western china .
slug have four noses .
although they do n't have the same type ofrespiratory system that the humanbeing has so their nose performs a different function to ours .
but they do have appendages that can sense heat and other stimuli , in other words they have 4 sensory organs where there nose looks like it should be .
but no actual nose .
russian pilot falls into cliff when paragliding in yen bai .
a russian pilot has met with an accident and fallen into the cliff from the height of 20 meters when joining the 2020 paragliding festival held in mu cang chai district in the northwestern province of yen bai .
a grassroots officer of mu cang chai 's cao pha commune confirmed on june 2 that the accident happened on may 30 , the local media reported .
after a few seconds of taking off , the male pilot 's paraglider teetered and fell into the cliff .
the leader of cao pha commune said that the pilot flew the paraglider in a wrong way , leading to the unexpected fall .
the victim sustained minor back injury in the accident and is receiving treatment at viet duc hospital in hanoi city .
the paragliding festival taking place on saturdays and sundays from may 30 to july 15 is aimed at introducing tourism images of yen bai .
local gasoline price could rise sharply tomorrow .
local fuel wholesalers forecast that the gasoline price in the local market will rise some vnd 1,000 per liter tomorrow , june 12 , following an upsurge in global petrol prices over the last 15 days .
data from the ministry of industry and trade revealed that the prices of ron92 and ron95 gasoline traded in singapore 's market as of june 8 were us $ 39.25 and us $ 42.16 per barrel , respectively , both up 19 percent against the previous 15-day period .
oil prices also soared to us $ 42 per barrel .
a fuel merchant in hcmc said that local fuel traders have been suffering losses since their commission was sharply reduced , while the global fuel prices have been seeing an upward trend these days .
accordingly , local fuel prices may be revised upward in line with the global market price .
based on the global increment level , oil and gasoline prices in the local market are expected to edge up by vnd 800-vnd 1,000 per liter if the national fuel stabilization fund is untapped , the merchant said .
a representative of a fuel firm in hanoi said that tomorrow will possibly mark the third consecutive time that local fuel prices are set to rise sharply since april 28 .
he predicted that local oil and petrol prices will edge up some vnd 500-vnd 600 per liter .
bulgarian jailed for stealing bank account data .
stamov ruslan todorvo , 37 , entered vietnam last october and stayed in ho chi minh city 's district 7 .
he frequented several atms of different banks to install a device which could collect pin numbers and other card information , allowing him to collect bank card numbers when someone used an atm , local media reported .
from october 7 to october 11 last year , several banks found that some of their customers ' accounts had been compromised and the money withdrawn from different atms in the city .
investigating police found that todorvo was part of a bulgarian group who had been stealing bank card information and using it to steal money with fake atm cards that they made with another device .
todorvo was detained october 10 when he went to the tan son nhat airport to leave vietnam .
police found that his laptop contained data from 121 bank accounts , including 98 from vietnamese banks and the rest from outside the country .
according to info provided by several banks , at least 10 customers have been robbed off around vnd 87.5 million ( $ 3,780 ) in total .
their account information was found in todorvo 's laptop .
he denied accusations that he had stolen the money .
no information on other members in his group has been revealed .
cancer-causing ingredient in chili peppers soothed by ginger .
it 's widely thought that ginger has health benefits — one of which may be to protect against an ingredient in chili peppers that has been linked to stomach cancer .
both ginger and chili peppers are commonly used in asian cuisine .
chili peppers get their kick from capsaicin , which some research suggests also has plenty of health benefits .
but a diet rich in capsaicin has also been linked to stomach cancer .
now , new research shows that one compound in ginger appears to offset the negative health effects of the chili pepper ingredient , and that used together , the two compounds might actually inhibit cancer growth .
researchers at pharmacy college of henan university in china conducted a study with mice prone to lung cancer .
over the course of several weeks , they fed the mice either capsaicin or 6-gingerol or both .
china surprises economists with gdp rise of 7 percent .
following weeks of stock market turmoil , china has confounded expectations that its economic growth would slow further in the second quarter , with gross domestic product rising by 7 percent .
analysts had widely predicted that economic growth would dip from 7 percent in the first quarter to around 6.8 percent in the second .
however , gdp held steady , officials from china 's national bureau of statistics claimed on wednesday morning .
the figure still represents the lowest level of growth since the 2009 global financial crisis but is in line with beijing 's official target for 2015 of around 7 percent .
the announcement of stable second quarter growth surprised analysts , offered a boost to beijing 's attempts to soften the country 's economic slowdown and came after weeks of chaos in the chinese stock market which saw more than $ 3tn wiped off shares .
however , there were immediate doubts over the growth figure 's reliability with the announcement sparking renewed debate over the trustworthiness of beijing 's statistics .
china 's premier , li keqiang , tried to put a brave face on the recent stock market collapse during a meeting on friday with economists and business leaders in beijing .
however , beijing has faced criticism for its handling of the crash .
chinese president xi jinping has vowed to reduce beijing 's role in the economy but as stocks plunged earlier this month the communist party took drastic measures , including temporarily halting initial public offerings .
south korean arrestedpeople who defrauded vietnamese labors .
on june 23rd , 2015 , thong-young policemen arrested 8 vietnamese women for bringing vietnamese to south korea by fraud .
including a 37 year-old woman , to south korea by marriage .
this object established a ghost company on june , 2014 and advertised on social networking sites said that it had the ability to help bring people from vietnam to south korea with fee from 5 to 9 trillion won ( $ 100 - 180 million ) .
by the above trick , these subjectscheated 143 vietnamese people with the total number 210 million won ( by 4.2 billion ) .
the same deceptive ads still appear on social network sites currently .
everyone needs to vigilant over it in order not to be victims of these subjects .
bkav to launch low-cost cell phones .
local internet security firm bkav on june 10 announced its plan to manufacture low-cost mobile phones priced at less than vnd 1 million .
the production of the bkav smart feature phone 4g-c85 is aimed at supplying the local market with cell phones with 4g internet connections at affordable prices .
the economical cell phones are set to be rolled out in july .
unlike bphone , which is a smartphone bkav had earlier launched in the market and was designed in terms of style and software by the firm , the bkav smart feature phone 4g will be produced in the form of original design manufacturing .
the new cell phones will run on the kaios operating system .
to offer the bkav smart feature phone 4g at less than vnd 1 million , bkav will join hands with a major telecom carrier to subsidize the price , said nguyen ba co , sales manager of bkav .
the firm 's cooperation with the telecom carrier is expected to expand its manufacturing operations to serve various customers , he added .
he noted , bkav has been selling mid- and high-end products , so it is about time the firm entered into the low-cost cell phone segment .
illegal hormone supply places transgender vietnamese at risk .
to an has spent the last decade reliant on feminizing hormones smuggled to vietnam after her gender reassignment surgery ( grs ) .
i consulted several hospitals in saigon , but was rejected due to a lack of professionalism .
i was stuck and considered suicide , to an recalled .
in 2009 , a gay man from thailand told her about a medicine that could give users smoother skin , develop their breasts , and stop facial hair from growing .
after receiving her order , to an asked a friend to help her with the injection , not considering the side effects .
according to the center for supporting community development initiatives ( scdi ) , there are around 300,000 to 500,000 transgender vietnamese , with 70 percent using hormones purchased from acquaintances , the internet , or , like to an , the black market .
there is no pharmacy or medical facility providing hormone therapy to transgender vietnamese , who have to rely on unprescribed hormones that often cause a host of side-effects .
most miracle effect testosterone and estrogen hormones are imported illegally from thailand , germany , and india , their origins completely unknown .
in the past three months , the covid-19 pandemic has seen international flights to vietnam halted , leaving transgender vietnamese in the lurch .
according to to an , many of her friends , who seldom stockpile hormones , are currently reliant on birth control pills .
the lack of supply is only one dilemma .
for many years , to an 's friends have helped her inject hormones , mostly on a trial-and-error basis .
once , following an injection in her buttock that caught infection , she had to be rushed to hospital for life-saving surgery , leaving her body permanently scarred .
after a near bleed-out , truc quan , 21 , has been self-injecting estrogen bought online for eight months , extremely conscious of the many risks involved .
according to doctor nguyen van phung , plastic surgery lecturer at the university of medicine and pharmacy in ho chi minh city , vietnam has no laws governing hormone therapy or grs for its transgender populace .
common side-effects of hormone injection include embolism , osteoporosis , hypertension , and allergy .
using unprescribed medication can be even more dangerous .
if facing complications related to hormone treatment or grs , transgender citizens should immediately attend hospital , the doctor stressed .
quan , having learnt her lesson , now periodically visits a clinic to receive a hormone injection .
she said , i hope my friends learn about the side-effects of hormone treatment , find a doctor , or someone with a medical background to assist them .
national woman 's team footballer wins vietnam fair play award .
national football team defender chuong thi kieu has won the 2019 vietnam fair play award given on tuesday .
she won the award primarily for her fair act at the sea games last year when she kept playing in the final despite having a thigh injury .
this helping vietnam beat thailand 1-0 in extra time .
kieu was praised by fans for staying and fighting despite the risk of worsening her injury .
she has recovered and is back at training , but needs more time to return to playing .
kieu scored 695 points to win the award .
she said , i 'm really grateful and i have to thank the coaches and teammates a lot .
without them , i would not be standing here accepting this award today .
kieu won the silver ball last month as the second best woman footballer in the country .
the golden ball winner is her national teammate huynh nhu .
other nominees for the fair play award were vietnam 's top referee , ngo duy lan ( 574 points ) , who prevented a player from swallowing his tongue after a collision in a v .
league game .
two nam dinh police officers got 457 points for saving a kid who had trouble breathing during a match .
national women 's team coach mai duc chung was honored at the function for helping the country win many accolades in 2019 .
the awards ceremony was originally scheduled to be held in february , but was postponed due to the covid-19 pandemic .
flc denies selling bamboo airways stake .
parent company flc has asserted that it has had no plans to sell its bamboo airways stake to another vietnamese conglomerate as rumored .
la quy hien , flc deputy ceo , made the assertion at the company 's annual general meeting tuesday , following recent rumors on social media that it has sold its subsidiary to an unnamed conglomerate in vietnam .
hien added that flc still owns 52.7 percent of bamboo airways and flc chairman trinh van quyet and other individuals own the rest .
however , hien acknowledged that many big and potential investors have shown interest in bamboo airways , and flc leaders have met with most of them .
flc is seeking permission to make an initial public offering ( ipo ) for the airline .
bamboo airways had earlier announced plans to list on the ho chi minh city stock exchange ( hose ) , vietnam 's main bourse .
the vietnam valuation and inspection quality jsc , a business valuation company , has valued the carrier at vnd 33.3 trillion ( $ 1.4 billion ) .
bamboo airways 's charter capital in april was increased by 73 percent to vnd 7 trillion ( $ 299 million ) , and hien said that flc does not plan to pour more money into the airline this year .
the company maintains its target to achieve 30 percent of the aviation market share this year .
the airline began flying in january 2019 and operates 40 domestic and international routes .
kido joins hands with vinamilk to develop beverage , ice cream sector .
at kido 's 2020 annual shareholder meeting on june 9 , kido corporation announced its cooperation with dairy company vinamilk to establish a joint venture in the beverage and ice cream industry , of which 49 percent will be owned by kido and 51 percent by vinamilk .
the joint venture called vinamilk-kido beverage company is aimed at manufacturing and trading beverages including healthy drinks and tea alongside producing ice cream and frozen food .
a kido representative said that the scale of the beverage sector in the local market stands at over vnd 120 trillion and is expected to surge in the future , opening the door for investors to tap the market of some 100 million people .
the joint venture is expected to capitalize on the advantages and strengths of both firms , which are vietnam 's leading enterprises , according to mai xuan tram , deputy general director of kido .
vinamilk accounted for 50 percent of the market share of the dairy sector in the country , while kido took the lead in the ice cream market , with a market share of 41.4 percent , according to a 2019 euromonitor report .
the new joint venture 's major advantage is the distribution channels owned by the two firms , with over one million beverage outlets .
kido said , after being established , the joint venture will also exploit vinamilk 's available export networks in 30 nations .
pm approves reopening of karaoke parlors , dance clubs .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc has given the green light to reopen karaoke parlors and dance clubs across the country as vietnam has managed to contain the covid-19 pandemic .
addressing a government meeting this morning , june 9 , phuc tasked the ministry of public security and relevant agencies with tightening control on violations and crimes at karaoke parlors and dance clubs after they reopen , especially the trade and use of heroin .
to help the tourism and aviation sectors recover , the prime minister asked the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control to identify countries or regions that have not reported new covid-19 cases over the past 30 days so that vietnam can resume flights to these regions .
ministries , government departments and local authorities should still be watchful , especially in border areas , at border gates and at airports , phuc said .
karaoke parlors and dance clubs are the last nonessential services allowed to reopen .
other nonessential services such as beauty salons , barbershops , and gyms have been reopened since may 7 .
as of this afternoon , vietnam had reported no new covid-19 cases in the community for 54 consecutive days .
national day holiday extension proposed as tourism boost .
the vietnam national administration of tourism ( vnat ) has suggested that this year 's national day holiday in september be extended from wednesday to the weekend .
this year , the national holiday falls on a wednesday , and many localities and over 30 businesses have said the holiday could be extended for the rest of that week to commemorate the 75th national day and promote domestic tourism , vnat head nguyen trung khanh said on tuesday .
ha tat thang , head of the department of labor safety , which is an advisory agency for annual holidays under the ministry of labor , invalids and social affairs , said he has not received any official document with such a suggestion from the tourism sector .
recovering from the epidemic , all businesses want to focus on restoring production .
each sector will have its own direction , but everything should serve the same interest , he said , adding that he would discuss the proposal with the labor ministry once he receives an official document .
whether the holiday would be extended or not would be decided by the government , he said .
of a total of 14 public holidays in vietnam this year , there 's only one left , which is the national day .
starting 2021 , vietnamese will enjoy an extra day off for the national day holiday , either on september 1 or september 3 .
vietnam 's tourism industry had lost an estimated $ 7 billion in revenues due to the covid-19 pandemic , with the number of guests in hotels dropping by 60 percent , according to data from the general statistics office .
the country has suspended international flights since march 25 .
northern vietnam faces the longest heat wave in 27 years .
a heat wave impacting hanoi and northern provinces since may 31 is expected to become the longest to have hit the region in over two decades .
high temperatures in northern provinces like lang son , bac ninh , bac giang , hai duong , hung yen , ha nam , and ninh binh were recorded at 39 degrees celsius on monday while those in hanoi and hoa binh reached 40 degrees celsius , according to the national center for hydro-meteorological forecasting .
the heat wave is forecast to linger until june 13 and may become the longest to have hit northern vietnam since 1993 .
nguyen van huong , head of the weather forecasting department at the center , said widespread heat waves since 1993 had only lasted five to seven days .
the average temperatures in northern localities in the coming days are expected to reach 36 to 39 degrees celsius .
american forecast services provider accuweather said the temperature in hanoi would reach 38 degrees celsius and remains at 35-36 until this weekend .
at 1 p.m monday , all monitoring stations recorded temperatures above 37 with a scorching hot sun .
the highest is lang area at 39 , ha dong district at 38.5 , hoai duc and son tay districts at 38 .
the heat wave was caused by low-pressure areas from the west and the foehn wind , a type of dry , warm and down-slope wind that occurs in the lee of a mountain range , huong said .
experts have advised residents to avoid direct exposure to sunlight between 10 a.m and 3 p.m and to wear sunscreen , sunglasses and brimmed hats if venturing out under the sun .
central vietnam has been impacted by similar scorching weather over the past 10 days .
the heat is expected to continue in the region until june 16 .
it is quite common for a heat wave to last 17 to 18 days in central vietnam .
the most intense heat wave to have struck the region occurred in 2015 , lasting for up to 39 days .
the national center for hydro-meteorological forecasting has warned of high risks of fire and explosion at local residential areas and forests due to the hot and dry weather .
vietnam has been going through scorching days since early may .
on may 21 , hanoi 's ha dong district experienced a record 40.9 degrees celsius , the highest may temperature since 1961 .
on the same day , parts of lao cai , hoa binh and ha giang also recorded their highest may temperatures in decades .
last year , vietnam went through possibly the hottest summer in history with average temperatures 0.5-1 degrees celsius higher than previously , climbing to an average 39-42 degrees celsius in many parts of the country .
the nation broke its highest temperature record on april 20 as the mercury hit 43.4 degrees celsius , or 110 degrees fahrenheit , in huong khe district , ha tinh province in central vietnam .
vietnam could host aff cup on its own .
vietnam could end up hosting the asean football federation ( aff ) cup 2020 on its own thanks to its effective handling of the covid-19 pandemic .
vietnam football federation ( vff ) general secretary le hoai anh affirmed last weekend that a single host was one of the options being considered by the aff .
in an official announcement last week , the asean federation affirmed that it wo n't be postponing the championship until 2021 as earlier planned , and the tournament will take place from november 25 to december 31 , soon after the world cup 2022 qualifiers .
the aff cup had introduced the new format of having home and away matches for each team from the group stage to the final in 2018 .
anh said vietnam has not received any official notice from the aff about changing the tournament format , but added that anything can happen in the current situation .
if the aff cup opts to have the tournament played in just one country , vietnam stands a great chance to host it because it would be considered a safe location after its demonstrated success in containing the pandemic .
vietnam is the only country in southeast asia to have restarted its football tournaments and opened up stadiums for spectators .
the national cup commenced may 23 , making it the first football tournament to make a comeback after vietnam eased its social distancing campaigns late april .
the match between duoc nam ha nam dinh ( nam dinh fc ) and hoang anh gia lai ( hagl fc ) saw 10,000 spectators fill half of the thien truong stadium in nam dinh province , an event that made international headlines .
snake found on plane at tan son nhat airport .
a flight attendant of vietjet flight vj162 discovered a small snake in the luggage compartment of the plane , which was set to depart from tan son nhat international airport in hcmc to hanoi city on june 7 .
following this , the pilot decided to return to an aircraft parking slot and all the passengers onboard were sent to the terminal of the airport to ensure their safety before being flown to hanoi city on another plane , the local media reported .
after preliminary results , the civil aviation authority of vietnam said that it was not a venomous snake and added that a passenger had brought the 20-centimeter snake onto the aircraft .
the authority and the airline are cooperating with relevant units at the airport to verify the incident .
in line with the regulations , all animals are banned on aircraft and , so , the passenger who brought the snake on the plane will be punished accordingly .
vietnam reports 332nd covid-19 case .
a vietnamese returnee from cambodia has tested positive for the coronavirus , taking the country 's total number of confirmed cases to 332 tonight , june 8 , according to the ministry of health .
after the 332nd patient , an 18-year-old man , had come back to vietnam through thuong phuoc border gate in hong ngu district in the mekong delta province of dong thap on may 25 , he was immediately sent to a quarantine center in the province .
the resident of dong thap province tested negative for the virus on may 26 , but his positive test result came out on june 7 .
he is being treated at hong ngu healthcare center .
among the 332 confirmed cases , 316 have made a full recovery .
son doong cave a record-breaking natural wonder us .
news site insider has named son doong , the world 's largest cave located in vietnam 's central province of quang binh , among 20 record-breaking natural wonders .
son doong is the only southeast asian representative in the list of record-breaking nature wonders , which also includes the angel falls in venezuela , the world 's tallest waterfall . the world 's longest nile river in africa . mount kilauea , the world 's most active volcanic mass in the us , and mount everest , the world 's highest mountain .
son doong is estimated to be between 400 and 450 million years old , but it was only discovered in 2009 .
the cave , which has a total length of 9 kilometers , was declared as the world 's largest and it opened to tourists in 2013 , four years after members of the british cave research association finished their exploration .
now , son doong , part of the phong nha-ke bang national park , a unesco heritage site , is a fast-emerging tourist destination in the country .
tours of son doong have reopened since mid-may after being closed for over two months due to the impacts of the covid-19 pandemic .
forbidden city opened to the public at night for the first time .
forbidden city that is a famous historical landmark in beijing ( china ) opened to the public at night for the first time since it was established as the palace museum 94 years ago .
the special event was a part of beijing lantern festival taking place feb 19-20. it marks the end of lunar new year 2019 holiday in china .
it is a rare opportunity for tourists from all over the world to enjoy a light show of lanterns as well as dazzling illuminations in the night sky of forbidden city .
to ensure the safety of the event , beijing officials limit visitors to 3,000 people per night .
they are lucky guests who successfully registered for free tickets issued online to enjoy a symphony concert at tu cam thanh with lantern performances , to watch ancient paintings of chinese culture which are projected on the roof , etc .
the slow people can also buy black market tickets at a price of 5,000 yuan ( about 740 usd ) through online transactions .
according to regulation , the forbidden city is usually closed after 16.30 daily in the winter and 15.00 in the summer .
only very important guests , such as us president donald trump during his trip to beijing in 2017 , have the privilege of visiting the forbidden city at night .
completed in 1420 , the forbidden city was the residence of kings and the political center of china for 500 years ( from the ming dynasty to the qing dynasty , 1420-1912 ) .
in the past , the lantern festival was a tradition that often organized for royal families .
however , concerns about the protection of ancient architecture - mostly made of wood - from fire , have made this tradition no longer exist .
british covid-19 patient able to sit up .
vietnam 's most severe case of covid-19 , the 91st patient , is able to sit up and push the buttons to control his bed , vu manh cuong , deputy head of the ministry of health 's department of communications , said on june 8 .
cuong added that the 43-year-old british pilot was able to follow all medical instructions from health workers and write on the board by himself , according to tuoi tre online .
after going five days without an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation machine , a life support machine used when a patient 's heart and lungs fail to function properly , the patient is now fully conscious , according to cuong .
the patient has been undergoing treatment for 82 days at two local hospitals since march 18 .
he continually had his blood filtered and saw his lung capacity stand at a mere 10 percent during his treatment .
however , since may 22 , the patient has taken a turn for the better and his respiratory functions have recovered by 60 percent .
on june 9 , the ministry of health reported no new covid-19 cases , keeping the country 's total number of confirmed cases unchanged at 332 .
vietnamese pop singers are interested in traditional topics .
vietnamese pop singers are broaching traditional topics in a brave new way , sparking off lively debates .
the two most notable recent songs are by hoa minzy and bich phuong .
hoa minzy 's ambitious nine-minute ballad musical video titled khong the cung nhau suot kiep ( ca n't be together forever ) provides a glimpse into the historical , gender-charged love story between vietnam 's last emperor , bao dai , and his wife , empress nam phuong .
nam phuong was wedded to bao dai in an unprecedented marriage which required but did n't receive permission from the roman catholic church because she was a catholic and he was not .
she was consecrated as empress or the emperor 's first wife right away , a patriarchal honor rarely bestowed on the concubines of the nguyen dynasty .
nam phuong went on to have five children with her husband .
bao dai , however , had other wives as well as extramarital affairs .
it is nam phuong 's reaction upon discovering her husband 's change of heart that is artistically treated in hoa minzy 's mv .
released on youtube on may 13 , không thể cùng nhau suốt kiếp has been widely lauded for its meticulous directing and scripting .
within three days the mv went on to become the no.1 clip on youtube vietnam 's top trending after attracting over 10 million views .
it has now garnered over 22 million views , many more likes than dislikes , and a lot of positive comments .
hoang thuy linh has a bunch of edm songs that make creative use of vietnamese culture such as her 2019 hit de mi noi cho ma nghe ( let mi tell you ) , which was inspired by 20th-century writer to hoai 's short story vo chong a phu ( a phu and his wife ) about a couple living in the northwestern mountains during the french resistance .
many mvs find inspiration in vietnamese history , literature and folk culture has become a clever strategy for vietnamese singers .
vietnam confirms two more coronavirus cases .
two vietnamese nationals , who returned to danang city from japan on june 5 , have tested positive for the new coronavirus , raising the country 's total number of confirmed cases to 331 this morning , june 8 , according to the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control .
the 330th patient , a 28-year-old female resident of ha tinh province , works at a hcmc-based company , while her co-worker , the 331st patient , who is 47 years old , lives in district 5 in hcmc .
the two women traveled to mexico from hcmc on march 13 .
due to border closure and flight suspension , they had to remain in mexico for weeks before flying to japan on june 4 .
they returned to vietnam through danang international airport a day later .
the two were sent to a quarantine center in quang nam province after their arrival , and tested positive for the virus on june 7 , vietnamplus news site reported .
the two patients are being treated at quang nam general hospital .
as of 6.00 a.m on june 8 , vietnam has gone through 53 days with no new coronavirus infections in the community .
among the 331 confirmed cases , as many as 307 patients have recovered from covid-19 , the disease caused by the new coronavirus .
vietnam it demand quadruples in 10 years . report .
with the country an attractive software outsourcing destination for multinationals , vietnam 's recruitment demand for it staff has quadrupled in the last decade .
the data , recorded by the number of job posts on recruitment website vietnamworks , shows software developers accounted for half of the demand in the 2010-19 period .
for years , multinationals like intel , ibm , nokia , and microsoft have chosen vietnam to outsource their software projects .
in terms of annual growth in demand , artificial intelligence developers took the top place at 27 percent , followed by mobile developers ( 19 percent ) and embedded system developers ( 16 percent ) .
the average monthly salary employers offer it staff has almost doubled to $ 1,466 throughout the decade .
for software developers , it almost tripled to $ 1,527 , showing a shortage of human resources in this field .
technology , information and communications enterprises recorded vnd 3.1 quadrillion ( $ 134 billion ) in revenue for 2019 , up 8.8 percent year-on-year , according to the ministry of information and communications .
vietnam last year had about 50,000 information and communications technology ( ict ) businesses , which the government wants to double by 2030 to add the country to the list of top 30 players in the sector .
fruit exporters hit by rising air freight costs .
vietnamese fruit exporters are struggling since air freight costs are surging due to the limited number of flights amid the covid-19 pandemic .
global fresh fruit company ltd of ben tre province has seen exports fall by half in the last two months despite high demand from overseas buyers .
its ceo , phung van hien , said logistics companies are demanding two to four times the freight they did at the end of 2019 .
rates for shipping to the middle east have surged from $ 1.5-1.8 per kilogram to $ 6 , and freight to australia has also increased , he said .
nguyen dinh tung , ceo of vina t & t , one of the largest vietnamese exporters of fruits to the us , told local media the cost of shipping has increased from the regular $ 3.2 to $ 5.4 .
the vietnam fruit and vegetables association ( vinafruit ) said the pandemic has caused a major challenge to vietnam 's export of fruits , pointing out that the number of flights to the us and australia has dropped from 30 per week earlier to 10 now .
vietnam 's fruit exports this year are down 21 percent to $ 1.1 billion , according to the ministry of agriculture and rural development .
exporters have been turning to shipment by sea , but this is only suitable for fruits that do not perish soon like coconut , durian , and dragon fruit .
fruits such as longan and lychee can not endure long shipping durations .
exports of vegetables and fruits were worth $ 3.7 billion last year , with china being the largest buyer , according to the ministry .
jica inspects progress of hcmc 's first metro line .
the japan international cooperation agency ( jica ) , which is funding hcmc 's first metro line , held a meeting with the hcmc management authority for urban railways ( maur ) on june 3 to discuss the progress of the project .
the jica delegation , led by junko takahashi , senior representative at the jica vietnam office , and maur leaders also discussed the difficulties caused by the covid-19 pandemic , capital disbursement , the financial situation and the implementation of contracts for major packages of the metro line that will link ben thanh market in district 1 and suoi tien theme park in district 9 .
addressing the meeting , bui xuan cuong , director of maur , thanked jica for its support and asked the agency to continue cooperating with the authority over major tasks for 2020 including capital disbursement , refunding payments and dealing with the challenges caused by the covid-19 outbreak .
cuong also requested the japanese government to assist vietnam in importing trains for the metro line and the travel of japanese experts to the country .
work on the 19.7-kilometer metro line began in august 2012 .
the line has 2.6 kilometers of underground track and over 17 kilometers of the elevated track as well as three underground and 11 elevated stations .
the metro line is more than 70 percent complete , and maur said it is accelerating the progress of components such as the installation of the tracks , lighting and signal systems and equipment at the stations .
it expects to complete 85 percent of the metro line by the end of this year and put it into service in late 2021 .
british covid-19 patient is fully conscious .
vietnam 's most severe case of covid-19 , the 91st patient , is fully conscious and able to respond to all instructions from health workers , said a representative from hcmc 's cho ray hospital , where the patient is being treated .
the british patient , who works as a pilot for the national flag carrier vietnam airlines , smiled when health workers were interacting with him .
he could also feebly nod and shake the hands of the health workers , the hospital representative said at 7 p.m on june 2 .
according to doctors at the hospital , his respiratory functions have gradually improved , while his kidney functions have also recovered .
his blood oxygen level remains stable .
the doctors have weaned him off an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation machine for two days , which is a life support machine used when a patient 's heart and lungs fail to function properly .
however , he has to rely on a ventilator .
as for the patient 's lungs , more than half of his left lung has almost recovered , while the right lung is showing signs of improvement .
the hospital representative said that the patient would continue to take antibiotics to treat his infection from burkholderia cenocepacia , a type of bacteria , as well as to prevent other bacterial infections .
he has also begun physical therapy .
as of 6 a.m on june 3 , vietnam has reported no new covid-19 cases caused via community transmission for 48 days .
up to 188 of the total 328 confirmed infections were imported and quarantined on arrival .
over 8,300 people are currently in quarantine .
vietnam launches second mobile virtual network operator .
a second mobile virtual network operator ( mvno ) called reddi was introduced to the local market on june 3 by operator mobicast , with the 055 prefix .
the network will use the mobile phone infrastructure of the state-owned vietnam post and telecommunications group ( vnpt ) to offer services to its customers .
to date , there are five traditional mobile network carriers in the country , namely viettel , mobifone , vnpt , vietnamobile and gtel .
as the latest addition to the local mobile network market , reddi stressed that it would target young and modern customers and offer them telecom and digital services through mobile apps .
reddi will not offer services at competitive prices but will focus on the customer experience .
the operator mobicast noted that it would coordinate with digital service providers to offer reddi customers new and personalized technology services .
one year ago , the country 's first mobile virtual network called itelecom was introduced with the numeral prefix 087 .
at the launch ceremony , its operator dong duong telecom company said itelecom would tap the niche market and provide mobile network services to workers in industrial zones .
however , itelecom has not released its business performance results since the launch .
data from the ministry of information and telecommunications revealed that there are some 126 million mobile subscriptions in vietnam but the average revenue earned from each subscription remains low at some vnd 100,000 per month .
accordingly , experts in the field said the current fierce competitive market does not leave much room for mobile virtual networks to grow .
le dang dung , chairman of military-run telecom carrier viettel , told the saigon times that mvnos see success only in european countries where the average revenue generated from each mobile subscription is high .
in vietnam , mvnos will struggle to compete with existing traditional mobile network operators since the average expenditures on mobile services in vietnam are already low at vnd 70,000-vnd 90,000 per month .
moreover , mvnos can only survive when traditional mobile network carriers have yet to own widespread sales channels .
in reality , local telecom carriers have established their business operations nationwide with a large number of both offline and online stores , he added .
mps steps up investigation into bribery case at tenma .
the ministry of public security ( mps ) has ordered the bac ninh province police to work with japanese firm tenma in the investigation of a bribery scandal involving 25 million yen to escape tax duties .
speaking at a regular government press briefing on june 2 , major general to an xo , head of the office of the ministry , said that the prime minister had directed the ministries of finance and public security to launch a thorough probe into the case .
while the investigation is being conducted by the ministry of finance , the mps has asked the bac ninh police to verify the information and collect the relevant paperwork and documentary evidence , xo said .
the ministry also requested several relevant agencies to contact the japanese firm over paperwork related to the case , the local media reported .
under the prime minister 's directive , investigation into the bribery case must be conducted in a transparent manner to prevent tax losses , noted the major general .
earlier , several japanese media outlets including asahi , kyodo and nikkei had reported that vietnamese officials accepted 25 million yen or vnd 5 billion in bribes from the vietnam unit of the tokyo-based company .
minister of finance dinh tien dung on may 26 ordered the suspension of tax and customs officials implicated in the bribery case involving tenma vietnam , a subsidiary of japan 's plastic product maker tenma corporation , leading to 11 officials being suspended for 15 days pending the probe .
late disbursement said to be reason for chinese contractor 's capital demand .
the chinese contractor stated that the late disbursement of funds in the cat linh-ha dong railway project prompted it to demand us $ 50 million to pay the subcontractors and experts .
on june 3 , tang hong , director of the cat linh-ha dong metro project , said that since february , the capital disbursement for the project was yet to be done , hindering the chinese contractor from paying the subcontractors .
while most of the project equipment has been completed , hong noted that the payment for the workload was yet to be made , vnexpress news site reported .
the chinese contractor asked the railway project management unit to pay us $ 50 million , in line with the provisions of the contract at an online meeting in may so that it could make payments to contractors , subcontractors and experts while operating the cat linh-ha dong urban railway on a trial basis .
this is the payment for the construction workload in accordance with the engineering , procurement and construction contract but not the increased costs , hong said .
meanwhile , vu hong phuong , director of the railway project management unit , said that the documents sent to the unit by the chinese contractor were not eligible , so the unit could not make any payment .
lower growth trend brews for vietnam beer industry .
vietnam 's strict implementation of drunk driving laws and other factors will dampen the beer market this year .
a recent report by the vietnam industry research and consultancy ( virac ) says this will be a trend in coming years despite the fact that a million people become newly eligible to consume alcohol each year .
the report estimates an annual growth of 6-7 percent for the domestic beer industry .
it notes that the industry 's stock value dropped by nearly 13 percent last year and says small businesses are likely to be most affected by the drop in growth .
in 2019 , vietnam consumed more than 4.6 billion liters of beer , an increase of more than 10 percent over the previous year .
according to germany-based data portal statista , beer sales revenue rose 6.88 percent year-on-year to around $ 7.75 billion .
the main reason for the industry slump is decree 100 , which took effect on january 1 this year , imposing stiff penalties for drunk driving .
those riding bicycles and electric bikes will also be fined for this .
motorcyclists and car drivers can be fined vnd 6-8 million and vnd 30-40 million ( $ 1,300-1,725 ) , double the old levels and have their licenses suspended for 22-24 months .
covid-19 pandemic is also said to likely contribute to slower growth this year .
the reports noted that vietnam 's export markets , including china and southeast asian countries , are experiencing high growth in food and beverage consumption .
equatorial guinea in africa is vietnam 's biggest export market , accounting for 20 percent .
vietnam 's export beer output in 2019 is estimated at 46 million liters valued at $ 45.87 million .
big c mien dong to close down .
thailand 's central retail , which manages and operates the big c supermarket chain in vietnam , announced yesterday that it will shut down the big c mien dong in hcmc 's district 10 in the next 20 days , as it has failed to reach an agreement on the site lease with the landlord .
given the impact of the coronavirus pandemic , the thai retailer has made efforts to reach an agreement over the extension of the contract with the site lessor to maintain normal operations at the supermarket and support local consumers during the post-covid-19 period , according to a central retail representative .
however , new suggestions from the lessor over the contract extension have left the retailer unable to fulfill its commitment to offer products at low prices to consumers , following which it decided to cease operating the supermarket .
after the shutdown , employees of big c mien dong will continue to work at other big c stores , the representative added .
aside from big c mien dong , other big c supermarkets under the central retail vietnam in hcmc include big c truong chinh , big c au co , big c phu thanh , big c an phu and go ! market .
the thai retailer said that it will adopt measures to minimize the inconveniences caused to the loyal customers of big c mien dong by continuously offering them shopping and direct-to-site delivery services via the hotline 1900 1880 or through online shopping apps such as chopp and grabmart .
big c mien dong , which is located on to hien thanh street , is among the first big c supermarkets that french retailer casino launched in the local market in 2003 .
big c was then rebranded as cora following an m & a deal between two french retailers .
from 2016 onward , the big c vietnam supermarket chain was officially owned by thailand 's central group .
woman illegally crossing china-vietnam border tests negative for coronavirus .
a 30-year-old vietnamese woman who illegally crossed the border from china through a small trail has tested negative for the coronavirus twice , according to the hcmc hospital for tropical diseases .
after crossing the china-vietnam border to enter the northern province of cao bang on may 28 , she traveled to hanoi and then boarded a flight to hcmc from noi bai international airport on may 29 .
through the body temperature monitoring system at hcmc 's tan son nhat international airport , the airport staff identified that she had a fever and took her to the hospital for quarantine and coronavirus testing .
dr nguyen van vinh chau , director of hcmc hospital for tropical diseases , said she is currently in stable conditions and her fever has gone away .
she is expected to be sent to cu chi field hospital for a compulsory 14-day quarantine period .
the hcmc international health quarantine center has sent the list of passengers who were on the same flight with the woman to the hcmc diseases control center .
the center has also asked local medical centers to take samples from the flight crew for coronavirus testing .
british covid-19 patient smiles after two months in coma .
a british man who is vietnam 's most critical covid-19 patient so far smiled as doctors talked to him on tuesday .
the covid-19 treatment sub-committee under the health ministry said his smile carries a lot of meaning , showing that he has been more conscious .
the digestive system of the patient , a 43-year-old vietnam airlines pilot designated as patient 91 , has also improved as his abdominal distension has reduced .
his kidney functions have recovered and he has been able to move his hands and legs .
the patient has developed a stronger cough reflex .
his pulmonary ventilation has become more stable .
however , he still has to rely on the life support extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) system .
the blood flowing through his ecmo currently stays at 3.7 liters per minute , and doctors are working to gradually reduce the system 's oxygen flow to 1.5 liters per minute .
previously , while he was still in a severely critical condition , the oxygen flow could go up to 5.7 liters per minute .
on monday , doctors at the cho ray hospital in ho chi minh city where the patient is treated have started letting him have physical therapy twice a day .
tran thanh linh , deputy head of the emergency department at the hospital , said an x-ray image of his lungs on may 25 revealed tissue or fluid blocking blood vessels in both lungs but the one taken on tuesday showed that more than half of the left lung has recovered from such situation .
his muscle weakness has also been improved .
this is the right time to reduce his dependence on the ecmo , he said .
earlier , the patient had suffered from the cytokine storm syndrome , which happened when his immune system overreacted to the novel coronavirus attacking the body , releasing too many cytokines , damaging his organs .
for now , he is still infected with burkholderia cenocepacia , a type of opportunistic bacteria , and doctors said it is difficult to treat .
vietnam has recorded 328 covid-19 cases so far .
vietnam passport ranks low in global ranking .
vietnam is one of the least powerful passports in the world , ranking 157th among 199 , says a report released tuesday by nomad capitalist .
the global offshore consulting firm ranked 199 economies in terms of passport strength based on five categories . visa-free travel , international taxation laws , global perception , dual citizenship and personal freedom .
vietnam 's low ranking in the nomad passport index 2020 reflects the fact that vietnamese passport holders can only travel visa-free to 54 countries and territories , slightly more than laos in southeast asia with 50 , the hong kong-based firm said .
vietnam also scored poorly in terms of global perception and level of personal freedom of citizens , travelers and expats , the report said .
in southeast asia , singapore has the most powerful passport with visa free access to 190 destinations and a high level of personal freedom , followed by malaysia with 178 countries .
nine of the ten top passports were from europe , with singapore being the only non-european country to break into the top ten .
the swedish passport was the most powerful with visa-free access to 186 countries and territories , high levels of personal freedom and an excellent global reputation .
the worst passport was from afghanistan , with visa free access to just 26 destinations .
with the donald trump administration pursuing a hostile immigration policy , the us lost its throne as the most powerful passport in the world , slipping down to 40th rank .
according to mastercard , vietnam has the second fastest growing outbound market in the asia pacific region after myanmar , with projected annual growth of 9.5 percent between 2016 and 2021 .
the firm forecast some 7.5 million vietnamese travelers would venture outside the country in 2021 .
chinese contractor 's capital demand for hanoi railway rejected . deputy minister .
deputy minister of transport nguyen ngoc dong stated that the chinese contractor 's demand of us $ 50 million for the trial operation of the cat linh-ha dong urban railway project in hanoi city would not be considered by the ministry of transport as it goes against the provisions of the contract .
stressing that the demand was not made in an official document , the deputy minister told the local media on june 2 that the chinese side demanded us $ 50 million for the trial operation of the railway during certain online meetings held between them and the railway project management unit .
the payments for the railway project have been made by the vietnamese side in accordance with the regulations of the engineering procurement and construction contract , the deputy minister noted .
in case the chinese contractor sends a document requesting the capital , the demand will not be considered as it goes against the contract , dong added .
under the contract , even if the chinese contractor suffers from financial difficulties during this time , they will have to run a trial operation , dong remarked , adding that the vietnamese side will not bear responsibility for any additional payment .
vietnam has paid 70 percent of the amount due for the cat linh-ha dong railway project , while the rest will be paid before the project is handed over , in line with the provisions of the contract .
the report sent earlier by the government to the national assembly revealed that chinese contractor china railway 6 bureau group had requested us $ 50 million for the operation of the system before handing over the project .
vietnamese fabric exports excluded from indonesia 's new tariffs .
indonesia 's ministry of finance has imposed new tariffs on imports , effective from may to november 2022 , to protect its local manufacturers due to the rising imports of fabric , fibers , and curtains , but vietnamese fabric being imported into indonesia is not subject to the new taxes .
under the indonesian ministry 's decree 56 year 2020 , the levels of self-defense taxes are at 1,405 rupiah or us $ 0.93 per kilogram from may 27 to november 8 , at 1,193 rupiah per kilogram from november 9 to november 8 , 2021 and at 979 rupiah per kilogram from november 9 , 2021 , to november 8 , 2022 , according to vietnamplus news site .
several countries and territories , including hong kong and south korea , are exempted from the new tariffs on synthetic fibers and curtains , while the fabric exports from india and vietnam to indonesia are not affected by the new taxes .
last year , the indonesian government imposed temporary duties of up to 67.7 percent on textile and garment imports to protect its locally manufactured products and encourage domestic consumption .
moody 's has warned that the us sino trade tensions will possibly prompt a shift in fabric , fibers and apparel products from china to southeast asia including indonesia , hindering the stability of demand and supply and hurting local producers .
the united states has levied a 25 percent import tax on china 's textiles and garments , higher than the levels of 10-15 percent being applied by indonesia .
lady gaga calls president trump a 'fool ' and a racist .
lady gaga is one of many celebrities to speak out on the death of george floyd and lay blame for the unfolding situation across the country on president trump .
people have been protesting against police brutality in the wake of a shocking video that shows the minneapolis man being taken into custody by an officer who places his knee on his neck .
in the footage , floyd , 46 , shouts i can not breathe and do n't kill me , before losing consciousness .
he was later pronounced dead .
on sunday , lady gaga posted a lengthy statement on her instagram vowing to stand with the black community as countless people across the country seek change .
in addition , she labeled donald trump a failure for his ignorance and prejudice on the matter .
she added . the voices of the black community have been silenced for too long and that silence has proven deadly time and time again .
and no matter what they do to protest , they are still met with no compassion by the leaders that are meant to protect them .
everyday people in america are racist , that 's a fact .
she went on to encourage her followers to support the black community .
she then turned her attention to trump , highlighting what she believes to be a lack of leadership during this unprecedented time .
we have known for a long time that president trump has failed , she wrote .
he holds the most powerful office in the world , yet offers nothing but ignorance and prejudice while black lives continue to be taken .
we have known he is a fool , and a racist , since he took office .
he is fueling a system that is already rooted in racism , and racist activity , and we can all see what is happening .
it 's time for a change .
the singer and actress concluded her lengthy statement with an oath to recognize her privilege and use it to fight racism .
chinese contractor demands us $ 50m for system operation of cat linh-ha dong project .
while the completion date of the cat linh-ha dong urban railway project in hanoi is not yet known and the inspection dossiers have not been completed , chinese contractor china railway 6 bureau group has requested us $ 50 million for the system operation before handing over the project .
the railway project management unit has reported the issue to the ministry of transport , noting that the payment must comply with the regulations of the engineering procurement and construction contract , according to nguoi lao dong newspaper .
the two sides have agreed to review the provisions of the contract within 15 days and organize a meeting to discuss the works that need to be completed , the unit noted .
the 13.05-kilometer cat linh-ha dong urban railway was designed to have 12 stations and one depot .
the funding needed for the railway project has surged from the initial estimate of vnd 8.7 trillion in 2008 to a staggering vnd 18 trillion including vnd 13.9 trillion borrowed from the chinese government and vnd 4.1 trillion in reciprocal capital .
work on the project began in october 2011 , and the railway was initially scheduled to be put into commercial operation in 2015 .
the railway is basically complete but is yet to be put into operation due to problems related to technical equipment at the depot , the safety assessment of trains , system operation activities and final settlement of the contract and payment .
in february , over 100 chinese experts failed to return to vietnam amid fears of the coronavirus pandemic , delaying the trial operation of the railway .
however , on april 24 , the government agreed to allow entry to experts working on the project .
the railway project management unit has asked the chinese contractor to complete the as-built documents and inspection dossiers for components such as the technical equipment , design of stations and depot .
regarding the system safety certification , the unit will work with act consulting and the chinese contractor to complete it in line with the laws in vietnam .
according to the government , the completion date for the project has not yet been decided and the responsibilities of organizations and individuals for the slow progress have not been made clear . so , capital has not been allocated for the construction supervision package .
to address these obstacles , the railway project management unit suggested that the ministry of transport report the problems to the government for solutions , extend the construction supervision package , and organize meetings with the chinese contractor to discuss capital demand for the trial operation of the railway .
vinfast recalls 12,450 chevrolet cars in vietnam .
vinfast , the exclusive distributor for general motors ' ( gm ) chevrolet brand in vietnam , is recalling over 12,450 chevrolet cruze , orlando , and trax vehicles with airbag defects in vietnam .
among these vehicles manufactured from january 2014 to 2018 , the cruze and orlando cars were locally assembled , while the trax vehicles were imported .
all of them were distributed by gm vietnam , thanh nien newspaper reported .
the inflators of the airbags have been made in a way that allows moisture to penetrate over time , increasing the risk of injury to drivers and passengers , according to the automaker .
to solve the problem , from may 20 , vinfast began conducting free checks and replacing the front airbag inflators in the defective vehicles .
the exercise is being carried out across vinfast dealerships nationwide .
checking and replacing inflators for each car takes some 30 minutes .
for the safety of drivers and passengers , vinfast has called on owners of faulty cars to take their vehicles to vinfast dealerships for checks and replacements .
the campaign will go on until may 20 , 2022 .
on june 28 , 2018 , vinfast , an auto-manufacturing subsidiary of vingroup , signed a strategic partnership agreement with gm .
under the agreement , vinfast became the exclusive distributor of chevrolet cars in vietnam and responsible for gm vietnam 's after-sales service in the local market , while gm became the preferred automotive technology provider of vinfast .
hcmc 's cpi down in may .
the consumer price index ( cpi ) of hcmc in may declined by 0.33 percent month-on-month , according to the city 's department of statistics .
three of 11 main commodity groups saw their prices drop last month including food and catering services by 0.41 percent month-on-month . housing , electricity , water , gas and construction materials . and transportation dropping by 0.97 percent and 2.3 percent , respectively .
the costs of education , as well as apparel , headwear , and footwear remained unchanged , while the remaining groups saw a month-on-month rise in prices .
in terms of food and catering services , the price of food edged down 0.4 percent as the demand for rice and instant noodles dropped , while that of foodstuffs inched up 0.72 percent against the previous month .
the prices of electricity and rent were revised down slightly as a way to ease the burden on residents due to the coronavirus pandemic .
however , the price of cooking gas increased by 11.6 percent , while that of kerosene tumbled by 10.6 percent .
the adjustments in local fuel prices on april 28 and may 13 saw the prices of gasoline and diesel oil in may dip by 5 percent month-on-month .
between january and may , the city 's cpi soared by 3.76 percent year-on-year , vietnamplus news site reported .
in may , the gold price index increased by 1.19 percent month-on-month and surged by 33.4 percent year-on-year , while the us dollar index edged down 0.49 percent month-on-month but added by 0.71 percent over the first five months of 2020 year-on-year .
out of prolonged coma , british covid-19 patient begins physical therapy .
vietnam 's most critical covid-19 patient , comatose for months , has regained consciousness , developed a stronger cough reflex and his right diaphragm is functional again .
in a remarkable turnaround engineered by the unstinting efforts of vietnamese doctors , the british man has begun to have physical therapy twice a day .
the 43-year-old vietnam airlines pilot , patient 91 , has increased muscle strength in all his limbs , the health ministry said sunday .
his lungs are getting better , while blood flowing through his ecmo ( extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ) system is recorded at 3.7 liters per minute .
doctors are planning to gradually reduce the system 's oxygen flow to 2.5 liters per minute .
previously , while the pilot was still in a severely critical condition , the oxygen flow could go up to 5.7 liters per minute .
while his condition is still critical , his ecmo stats have reduced , doctors said .
the patient has been taken off dialysis since may 27 , and his kidney functions have improved , they added .
doctors are also feeding him either directly or intravenously .
they will focus now on curing his lung infections and making him gradually less reliant on ecmo .
they are also looking for suitable donors to give him a lung transplant .
earlier , the patient had suffered from the cytokine storm syndrome , which happened when his immune system overreacted to the novel coronavirus attacking the body , releasing too many cytokines , damaging his organs .
he is also infected with burkholderia cenocepacia , a type of opportunistic bacteria , which doctors said was difficult to treat .
vietnam has recorded 328 covid-19 cases so far .
thaibev rejects reports it is selling vietnam 's largest brewer .
thaibev has denied reports by some news outlets that it is planning to sell saigon beer producer sabeco .
the thai giant said in a recent statement that it is in fact seeking to consolidate its position as the largest beverage company in southeast asia , and vietnam , as one of the fastest growing economies in the world , continues to be a core market for it .
the statement was released following media reports that thaibev was seeking a buyer for its businesses in vietnam .
thaibev acquired a 53.59 percent stake in sabeco in 2017 from the ministry of industry and trade , which retains 36 percent .
in december last year thaibev denied rumors it was selling shares of sabeco to brewer budweiser apac .
sabeco , the largest brewer in vietnam with a market cap of vnd 113 trillion ( $ 4.9 billion ) , recorded a seven-year low post-tax profit of vnd 720 billion ( $ 31 million ) in the first quarter , which it said was caused by unexpected pandemic effects .
new hi-tech urban area approved in hanoi .
the vietnamese government has approved the planning of a hi-tech eco-friendly area in hanoi that could host 600,000 people by 2030 .
the 17,300 hectares hoa lac urban area will be located to the west of hanoi , bordering the northern province of hoa binh , according to a decision signed by deputy prime minister trinh dinh dung .
the area , where the existing hoa lac hi-tech park is located , is estimated to have a population of 150,000 by 2025 and 600,000 by 2030 .
it will have two main sections , one for the development of technology , high-skilled labor and research , and the other a green and smart urban area .
it is expected to partially absorb the overflow of population in hanoi , which reached eight million last year , and boost economic growth in the city 's suburbs .
china media , hk government bristle at trump 's pledge .
china 's state media and the government of hong kong lashed out on sunday at us president donald trump 's vow to end hong kong 's special status if beijing imposes new national security laws on the city , which is bracing for fresh protests .
trump on friday pledged to take action to revoke hong kong 's preferential treatment as a separate customs and travel territory , and to impose sanctions on unspecified individuals over beijing 's new laws on the asian financial centre .
but china 's state media pushed back , saying this would hurt the united states more than china .
the baton of sanctions that the united states is brandishing will not scare hong kong and will not bring china down , china 's communist party mouthpiece , the people 's daily , wrote in a commentary .
it used the pen name zhong sheng , meaning voice of china , often used to give the paper 's view on foreign policy issues .
a hong kong government spokesman expressed regret the united states continued to smear and demonise the legitimate rights and duty of our sovereign to safeguard national security .
in a sign of diplomatic manoeuvring , the us government said it would put one of its prime hong kong properties up for sale - a luxury residential complex worth up to hk $ 5 billion ( us $ 650 million ) .
a spokesman for the us consulate in hong kong said this was part of a global programme that reinforces the us government 's presence in hong kong through reinvestment in other areas .
china and hong kong officials have justified the laws that will be directly imposed by china to restore order to a city that has been wracked by sometimes violent anti-china , anti-government protests over the past year .
they said the laws will only apply to a small number of troublemakers .
protesters , however , have said they are railing against china 's deep encroachment on hong kong 's autonomy and freedoms despite beijing 's promise to grant the city a high degree of autonomy under a so-called one-country , two systems formula since it reverted from british to chinese rule in 1997 .
more protests are planned in the coming weeks .
countries including the united states , canada and britain have expressed deep concerns about the law , with britain saying it may grant expanded visa rights to large numbers of hong kongers .
demosisto , an advocacy group led by prominent young hong kong democracy activist joshua wong , said the security law will be the death of freedom in hong kong .
a senior hong kong official , erick tsang , said he could n't care less if he were sanctioned by the washington .
i would n't even go to canada , just in case they try to catch me there , tsang told local radio .
details of the laws remain unclear , even to hong kong officials , but are expected to be enacted by china 's parliament this summer .
phu quoc night market reopens .
the government of phu quoc district , kien giang province , has allowed the phu quoc night market to reopen from april 29 .
according to a decision signed by phu quoc district 's vice chairman , pham van nghiep , vendors on the ly tu trong , nguyen an ninh , nguyen dinh chieu , le loi and bach dang streets , which encompass the night market , can resume operations from april 29 .
they still have to apply coronavirus infection prevention and control measures such as requiring guests to wear face masks and maintain a safe physical distance , providing hand sanitizers for guests and cleaning up and disinfecting their stores daily .
the phu quoc night market is one of the most popular attractions on phu quoc island .
it is home to hundreds of stalls offering a wide variety of local specialties such as peppercorn and fish sauce , food ( especially seafood ) and souvenirs at reasonable prices .
the district authorities on april 23 permitted the resumption of domestic air services to phu quoc island . road transport , including taxi and coach services . and hospitality and catering services .
vietnam arrested a man trafficking guns , drugs from cambodia .
a man was arrested on long an province 's border with cambodia tuesday with three guns and about 21 kg of drugs .
tran tuan khanh , 30 , was arrested in long an 's kien tuong town , which borders cambodia and is about 93 km to the west of hcmc .
he was caught while passing through a border gate to enter vietnam from cambodia with a bag containing 20.8 kg of drugs , two k59 pistols , a zoraki pistol , a magazine and 25 bullets .
khanh said he 'd bought the guns and drugs from an unidentified person in cambodia and intended to sell them in vietnam .
vietnam has some of the harshest punishments for drug trafficking , awarding death to those convicted of possessing or smuggling over 600 grams of heroin or more than 2.5 kg of methamphetamine and to those producing or selling 100 grams of heroin or 300 grams of other illegal narcotics .
however , this does not seem to have had a deterrent effect , with increasing drug trafficking cases coming to light in recent years .
a traffic officer accused of organizing a drug-related party .
a traffic officer in the north-central province of thanh hoa stands accused of organizing a drug related party , alongside six other culprits .
thanh hoa police announced the probe and detainment of the suspects for four months based on the accusation they facilitated illegal use of narcotic substances thursday .
hoang van dong , 37 , was identified as the kingpin . his accomplices being 34-year-old former traffic lieutenant nguyen tat thang and five others .
on may 21 , police raided a villa in sam son town and found 16 people .
thang and 13 others subsequently tested positive for heroin .
dong said on may 20 , he bought eight ecstasy pills and invited his friends to the villa to bid him farewell before embarking on a sentence for a crime he committed prior to the party .
police break up major online gambling ring in hanoi .
the hanoi police have arrested truong ngoc tu and 15 other suspects for their alleged involvement in an online gambling ring , with total transactions worth up to vnd 64 trillion .
tu , 37 , residing in hanoi 's long bien district , was identified as one of the tier-1 agents of the gambling ring , the police said on may 28 .
the gang was busted after several raids were conducted from may 22 .
34 mobile phones , 23 atm cards , five computers and hundreds of sim cards were seized .
the gambling ring has been in operation since 2018 , enabling gamblers to play betting games including hoo hey how and poker on the internet .
players could top up their accounts through agents to gain points , make bets and exchange points for money .
to lure more punters , tu and his alleged accomplices hired many agents , ran ad campaigns and encouarged punters to download gambling apps on their mobile phones or laptops .
a preliminary investigation revealed that millions of accounts have been registered by the gambling ring , with 24 tier-1 agents and hundreds of tier-2 agents .
the police noted that tu and the other suspects , including nguyen ngoc trung , nguyen trong tuan , nguyen van toan , khuat vinh quang from hanoi and tran huu hung from the north-central province of ha tinh , had colluded and contributed capital to buy accounts to run the ring .
aside from creating virtual accounts online , the suspects also opened multiple bank accounts at various banks to assist with transactions , money transfers and payment activities .
baby boy returning from russia is country 's latest covid-19 case .
a one-year-old boy who returned to vietnam on a repatriation flight from russia has been confirmed as the latest covid-19 patient in vietnam , the 328th case .
the child traveled on the same vietnam airlines flight vn0062 as the 314th patient , whom he was in close contact with in russia , the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control announced in a statement this morning , may 30 .
the child , who resides in the north-central province of thanh hoa , was quarantined on arrival at van don international airport in quang ninh province on may 13 .
his sample , which was collected on the same day , first tested negative .
on may 28 , after his fourth test conducted at the center for disease control and prevention in hai duong province , his sample came out positive for the virus .
on may 29 , the national institute of hygiene and epidemiology in hanoi confirmed that his sample had tested positive once again .
he is being treated at the hospital for tropical diseases in hai duong .
the child tested positive for the novel coronavirus on the 16th day after coming into close contact with the 314th coronavirus patient , which is longer than the usual 14-day incubation period for covid-19 .
to date , 34 coronavirus cases have been recorded among travelers onboard flight vn0062 , including two cabin crew members and 32 passengers , who were all quarantined on arrival .
with the latest case , vietnam 's total covid-19 infection cases have reached 328 , with 279 patients in recovery .
since april 16 , the country has reported no new cases via community transmission .
an additional 7,870 people who were in close contact with coronavirus patients or those returning from virus-hit areas have been placed in quarantine .
man caught taking 30,000 face masks to laos .
a vietnamese man caught in ha tinh province was carrying 30,000 face masks in 13 boxes to laos .
border authorities in the central province on friday also found 98 sets of medical protective clothes made in vietnam .
the boxes were kept in the trunk of a bus which was passing the cau treo international border gate .
authorities said the bus assistant , 32-year-old mai trong diep , confessed he was responsible for carrying them to vientiane .
diep , who is from nam dinh province , said he was hired by two strangers to transport the goods from hanoi to vientiane for vnd 6.5 million ( $ 280 ) .
vietnam has banned the exports of face masks since february 28 , with exceptions for government aid .
diep , therefore , faces fines of vnd 5-10 million ( $ 215-430 ) .
face masks have been in high demand in vietnam since the covid-19 epidemic broke out in the country .
many local textile companies have shifted from making garments to masks , to cater to rising demand .
many violations relating to masks have been found in recent weeks .
many violations relating to masks have been unfolded .
early february , authorities seized 200,000 masks being transported to china in the border province of quang ninh .
hcmc newspaper pays steep price for criticizing property developer .
a hcmc newspaper was fined vnd 55 million ( $ 2,380 ) and had its online publication suspended for a month for carrying false information .
phu nu tphcm ( hcmc women ) had criticized a major vietnamese property firm , sun group , saying it was destroying the environment through its developments .
this was false information that caused serious consequences , nguyen thanh lam , head of the ministry of information and communications ' press department , said in a decision he signed off on .
between september and october last year the newspaper published seven stories in print or online criticizing the company for harming the environment .
the stories featured sun group 's projects at the ba na-nui chua nature reserve in the central city of da nang and tam dao national park in the northern province of vinh phuc .
besides the fine and the suspension , the newspaper also has to publicly correct the stories and apologize to its readers .
phu nu tp hcm is published by the ho chi minh city women 's union .
the newspaper launched its print edition in 2011 and went online in 2015 .
vingroup has set its sights on car , smartphone exports to the us .
planning to first conquer the most challenging market , vingroup has set its sights on car , smartphone exports to the us .
if we could win over the most difficult market , we could easily enter others .
it 's a test .
we need to set high goals for our startups , said pham nhat vuong , chairman of the largest listed company in vietnam , at a shareholder meeting thursday .
he was referring to automaker vinfast and smartphone producer vinsmart , both subsidiaries identified as the company 's new core businesses .
vinfast on thursday tested its first electric car model in hanoi in preparation for los angeles auto show in november .
although the company does not release sales figures , official data shows 5,124 vinfast cars were registered in the first quarter , helping the auto brand rank fifth in vietnam sales .
vinsmart has sold 1.2 million smartphones in 17 months to claim third place in vietnam market share behind south korea 's samsung and china 's oppo .
however , losses are expected for both companies in three to five years , vuong warned .
for the next several years our target is not to profit but to dominate the market .
vingroup , with a market cap of over $ 14 billion , has not been immune to coronavirus impacts .
the board has announced that it would strictly manage spending and investment this year to reduce costs and focus on developing its existing businesses .
the company aims to hit a revenue of vnd 145 trillion ( $ 6.2 billion ) this year , up 12 percent over 2019 , and a post-tax profit of vnd 5 trillion ( $ 214 million ) , down 35 percent .
hanoi jails man who tricked two women into prostitution in china .
a man was sentenced to 19 years in jail wednesday for his involvement in trafficking two women to china in 2005 .
dinh van dong , 52 , was charged with human trafficking and trafficking of a person under 16 , the hanoi people 's court heard .
in 2005 , dong lent nguyen thi thu ha , 36 , a certain amount of money to help her mother pay off a debt .
in return , ha had to coerce two women from hanoi to sell commodities in china on dong 's behalf , local media reported .
visiting hanoi in may 2005 , ha met a woman named hang who helped her persuade two anonymous sisters , one aged under 16 , to travel to china .
however , both sisters were subsequently sold into prostitution , earning dong vnd 3 million ( $ 128 ) , and ha and hang vnd 14 million ( $ 599 ) .
police opened an investigation after the sisters ' parents reported that they went missing .
they soon arrested ha , who in february 2006 was sentenced to 17 years in jail on the charges of human trafficking and trafficking of a person under 16 .
dong was arrested in september last year .
hang 's whereabouts remain unknown .
the sisters have not been rescued .
vietnam is a human trafficking and illegal migration hotspot with annual profits worth tens of billions of dollars , according to the ministry of public security .
the country has recorded over 3,400 victims of human trafficking since 2013 , over 90 percent of them women , children and people from ethnic minority communities , nguyen xuan lap , head of the ministry 's department of social issues prevention , said at a conference in november last year .
vinfast test runs electric car for launch at us show .
automaker vinfast has tested its first electric car model in hanoi with plans to introduce it in a us auto show later this year .
vinfast plans to launch the car at the los angeles auto show in november before promoting it in different countries in january next year .
it plans to start mass production in july next year .
the car is designed by italy 's pininfarina , which also designed vinfast 's first suv and sedan .
the car is set to have a 470 horsepower engine and be able to run 500 kilometers on full charge .
vinfast is developing its own batteries for the vehicle using cells from south korea 's lg company .
vinfast , a unit of vietnam 's largest company vingroup , started delivering its first cars in june last year .
the company does not release sales figures , but official data shows that 5,124 vinfast cars were registered in the first quarter .
this puts it in the fifth place in sales , behind hyundai , toyota , kia and honda .
coronavirus deaths in us top 100,000 .
health officials say the actual death toll is likely far higher than the recorded count .
the us has passed 100,000 deaths in the coronavirus outbreak in less than four months .
it has seen more fatalities than any other country , while its 1.69 million confirmed infections account for about 30 percent of the worldwide total .
the first us infection was reported in washington state on 21 january .
globally there have been 5.6 million people recorded as infected and 354,983 deaths since the virus emerged in the chinese city of wuhan late last year .
the us death toll stands at 100,276 , according to johns hopkins university in maryland , which has been tracking the pandemic .
it means that around as many americans have died from covid-19 than from the korea , vietnam , iraq and afghanistan wars combined .
but on a per capita basis the us ranks ninth in its mortality rate behind the likes of belgium , the united kingdom , france and ireland , according to the university .
british covid-19 patient moves out of two-month coma .
vietnam 's most critically ill covid-19 patient regained consciousness wednesday after doctors reduced his sedation doses .
patient 91 , a 43-year-old vietnam airlines pilot in ho chi minh city , has started having cough responses , could move the tips of his fingers , make basic communication and follow doctors ' simple instructions , said doctor nguyen tri thuc , director of cho ray hospital .
thuc said this development happened two days after doctors stopped using muscle relaxants on him and gradually reduced his sedation dosage .
his thoracic diaphragm and limbs , however , remained weak or paralyzed .
doctors also stopped dialysis again after having restored the treatment for 24 hours .
the patient 's condition is still severely critical , but his awareness , blood oxygen level and kidney functions have improved compared to two days earlier , the doctor said .
according to a treatment sub-committee set up by the health ministry , x-ray images of the patient 's lungs wednesday afternoon showed small improvement , and doctors have reduced the blood flow through the ecmo ( extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ) system from 4.5 liters per minute last friday to 4 liters per minute .
ecmo is a technique that pumps blood out of the body and to a heart-lung machine that removes carbon dioxide and sends oxygen-filled blood back .
while the patient 's lung functions have shown improvements , these are still not enough , thuc said .
he would still have to undergo treatment for his lung infection with the goal of gradually reducing his reliance on the ecmo system .
the patient is scheduled to have a third chest ct scan thursday afternoon for an evaluation of his lung recovery .
the health ministry sub-committee , cho ray hospital 's doctors and experts from major hospitals across the country would hold an online consultation friday to agree on the next treatment plan for the patient , a pilot employed by vietnam airlines at the time he was confirmed infected .
earlier , the patient had suffered from the cytokine storm syndrome , which happened when his immune system overreacted to the novel coronavirus attacking the body , releasing too many cytokines , damaging his organs .
the vietnam airlines pilot was the first case in the cluster of infections in hcmc associated with the buddha bar & grill , a major outbreak site in the southern metropolis .
a few days after he was diagnosed , 18 others were also found infected .
chemical castration proposed against child sexual abusers .
a national assembly ( na ) deputy has recommended that chemical castration be one of the penalties for those found guilty of committing sex crimes on children .
according to na deputy nguyen ngoc phuong from quang binh province , chemical castration has been adopted in many countries .
chemical castration involves using a drug to lower the testosterone level in men , which affects their sex drive .
if vietnam approves the addition to the law on fighting child sexual violence , the number of child abuse cases could drop by 50 percent in the years to come , phuong stated during a discussion on adopting policies and laws to prevent and fight against child abuse , held on may 27 .
aside from chemical castration , the na deputy of the central locality suggested further penalties for child sexual offenders , including increasing administrative fines , disclosing the identities of sexual offenders and listing their offenses in their cvs , to deter offenders and prevent recidivism as well as protect children .
phuong added that child abuse has caused a public uproar .
many people he has met have called for offenders to be arrested and punished strictly and promptly .
most child abusers are acquaintances or even parents of the victims .
they take advantage of the children 's innocence to commit these crimes .
some have even repeated their offenses and threatened to kill the victims if they dare to report them , phuong remarked , adding that it is essential for the na to closely monitor for the prevention of and fight against child abuse .
he proposed the government should study plans to increase or impose extra penalties on child sexual predators .
commenting on the increase in fines and penalties , na deputy duong minh tuan from ba ria-vung tau province noted that vietnam 's legal framework was not strong enough to protect children from all forms of violence , resulting in a rise in child abuse cases and leaving a significant impact on victims , both physically and mentally .
accordingly , tuan suggested imposing heavier fines and sanctions on offenders .
data released at the discussion showed that the country had uncovered over 8,440 child abuse cases between january 2015 and june 2019 , with more than 8,700 child victims .
during the first half of last year , up to 1,400 children were reported as victims in child abuse cases , which is equivalent to some 80 percent of the total crimes against children recorded in 2018.py .
minister said , no foreign individuals own land in vietnam .
minister of natural resources and environment tran hong ha stressed that no foreign nationals have been granted certificates denoting prime land use rights in the country , adding that the ministry will soon introduce regulations curbing the practice of aliens using vietnamese as fronts to acquire land lots in the country .
ha told reporters on the sidelines of the national assembly session on may 27 that in line with prevailing regulations , foreigners are not issued land use rights certificates .
the land law states that foreigners are not eligible to own land lots in vietnam , so the granting of land use rights certificates to aliens is nonexistent .
however , the regulations allow the issuance of land use rights certificates to legal representatives of foreign firms and foreign-invested enterprises as firms are allowed to receive stake transfers and capital contributions in line with the investment law .
the ministry is completing a legal framework for land to clearly form groups of strategic land lots , especially those of significant importance to national defense , to launch special policies for the handover of land , land leases and the issuance of land use rights certificates , tuoi tre newspaper reported , citing ha .
hcmc to open can gio-vung tau ferry service in september .
the ferry route linking hcmc 's outlying district of can gio and neighboring vung tau city is expected to be launched on september 2 .
bui hoa an , deputy director of the hcmc department of transport , noted that the 15-kilometer ferry route will be put into service in early september instead of early april due to the coronavirus pandemic .
quoc chanh ltd will operate the ferry route , with a single trip expected to take 30 minutes .
currently , travel between can gio and vung tau is only possible by road and takes over three hours and 30 minutes , thanh nien newspaper reported .
ferries on the route can accommodate over 250 passengers , 100 motorcycles , and 15 cars or trucks , with 24 trips expected per day .
the ferry route will also benefit local people in long an and tien giang provinces as it will take them only two hours and 30 minutes to travel to vung tau using the new waterway route compared with using the hcmc-long thanh-dau giay expressway .
aside from saving on travel time , ferry passengers can enjoy the scenery along rung sac road and visit tourist sites in can gio .
an noted that quoc chanh has proposed a ferry ticket price of vnd 50,000 per trip .
however , the pricing must be reported to the municipal department of finance for consideration and then reported to the hcmc people 's council .
the ferry terminals are under construction , and work on some transporter bridges is complete , remarked the deputy director of the municipal department .
the can gio-vung tau ferry route , coupled with the existing routes for binh khanh and can gio-can giuoc , will create more favorable conditions for can gio to connect with its neighboring provinces , reduce traffic overload and contribute to hcmc 's socioeconomic and tourism growth , he added .
vietnam suspends officials implicated in japanese firm 's bribery allegations .
several tax and customs officials in bac ninh province will be suspended for 15 days pending investigations into bribery allegations made in japan .
the decision was made at the request of finance minister dinh tien dung to the general department of taxation and the general customs department tuesday , following reports that a japanese plastic company paid the officials $ 215,000 in bribes .
members of the tax and customs teams that inspected imports by tenma vietnam , which has operated in the northern province since 2007 , and senior officials responsible for setting up the two teams are subject to the suspension order .
among the suspension list are the head of bac ninh 's customs department and deputy head of the province 's tax department .
on monday , the finance ministry began probing recent reports in some japanese newspapers , including asahi , that tenma had bribed vietnamese officials on two occasions - in 2017 and last year .
an asahi report said that tenma representatives on april 1 confessed to prosecutors in tokyo that its subsidiary tenma vietnam in june 2017 had imported a batch of molds and vietnamese officials demanded a value-added tax of jpy1.8 billion ( $ 16.7 million ) .
to avoid this obligation , the ceo of tenma vietnam , which is based in the northern province of bac ninh , paid a senior customs official vnd 2 billion ( jpy10 million or about $ 86,000 ) in cash .
the newspaper also reported that in august last year , bac ninh tax authorities had asked tenma vietnam to pay tax dues , including corporate income tax , of jpy89 million ( $ 826,400 ) .
it said tenma vietnam paid vnd 3 billion ( jpy15 million or around $ 129,000 ) in cash to tax officials to get the dues lowered to jpy2.6 million ( $ 24,300 ) .
on may 1 , tenma announced on its website that the ceo implicated in the bribery would announce his resignation at a shareholders ' meeting in june .
the company is being investigated for bribing foreign officials and violating unfair competition laws in japan .
to lam , vietnam 's minister of public security , said tuesday that vietnam was cooperating with japan on the investigation .
the information of tenma bribing vietnamese officials came from japan , so we need international coordination to investigate this case , lam said on the sidelines of a parliament session in hanoi .
representatives from bac ninh 's people committee , the highest executive body in the province , said tuesday that a preliminary review by local police has not showed any abnormal signs .
tenma vietnam continues to operate normally at the que vo industrial zone in bac ninh .
company representatives told local media that all of its senior officials are either away from the province or still in japan .
midfielder dung wins vietnam golden ball 2019 .
the vietnam golden ball ( vgb ) 2019 was won by do hung dung for his sterling performances last year .
accepting his award tuesday night in hcmc , he stressed the importance of teamwork .
a team can have many great individuals , but to make a good team it needs teamwork .
in my opinion , besides skills or tactics , the teammate spirit also needs be to practiced right from the beginning , dung , 26 , said .
among five nominees for the vgb 2019 – do hung dung , nguyen quang hai , nguyen trong hoang , nguyen van quyet and doan van hau – the first two were the highly rated ones .
both dung and hai won sea games 30 gold medal and other titles with their club hanoi fc .
hai won the golden ball in 2018 .
according to the award organizers , dung won 428 points for the golden ball this year , followed by hai ( 310 points ) and hoang ( 154 points ) .
although he won the same titles as hai , dung played a more vital role in the sea games 30 .
he captained the team when hai got injured in the group stage , and helped vietnam obtain their first sea games football gold medal in 60 years .
dung also proved his versatility in 2019 .
for hanoi fc , he played close to the box as an attacking midfielder . and for the national team , he played as a defensive midfielder .
in the women category , forward and national team captain huynh nhu won the golden ball for the second time after 2016 , followed by chuong thi kieu and nguyen thi tuyet dung .
tran van vu won the futsal golden ball for the third time , followed by pham duc hoa and nguyen minh tri .
as expected , the award for best young male player went to left-back doan van hau , while nguyen thi tuyet ngan was chosen the best young female player .
senegalese striker pape omar won best foreign player award .
park hang-seo , the coach of men 's national football team and mai duc chung , the women 's national team coach were also given campaign medals for their contribution to vietnamese football .
costa rica celebrates first same-sex weddings .
the first same-sex weddings have taken place in costa rica , the first central american country to approve its marriage legislation .
a lesbian couple became the first to tie the knot in a ceremony that took place just after the new law came into effect at midnight .
the wedding was shown on national tv .
president carlos alvarado said the law change meant costa rica now recognised the rights lesbian and gay people had always deserved .
he tweeted ( in spanish ) that empathy and love should from now on be the guiding principles which will allow us to move forward and build a country where there is room for everyone .
the first same-sex marriage ceremony was broadcast as the culmination of a three-hour programme celebrating marriage equality .
marriage equality came about after the constitutional court declared in august 2018 that a ban on same-sex weddings was unconstitutional and discriminatory .
the court gave costa rica 's parliament 18 months to change the law .
enrique sánchez , costa rica 's first openly gay member of parliament , welcomed the change and praised those who had spent years lobbying for the same-sex marriage ban to be lifted .
many state-owned firms under special financial supervision .
the state audit agency has placed many major state-owned firms with capital management inefficiencies on a special financial supervision watchlist .
in a report submitted to the national assembly saturday , the agency said it found many inadequacies in the management and use of state capital in 235 subsidiaries operating under 36 corporations or groups in 2019 .
it said that many of these subsidiaries have shown signs of lacking financial security .
at the top of this list is the vietnam coal & mineral group ( tkv ) , with 24 subsidiaries cautioned about their financial safety .
those with higher financial risk have been put on special financial supervision watchlist .
these include major names like budget carrier jetstar pacific airlines , a subsidiary of national carrier vietnam airlines . ninh binh fertilizer , ha bac nitrogenous fertilizer , and dap-vinachem fertilizer plants in northern vietnam which are subsidiaries of chemical giant vinachem . and petrolimex laos , a subsidiary of national petroleum distributor petrolimex .
dong nai prosecutes director associated with fatal wall collapse .
the dong nai investigative police agency has decided to prosecute and temporarily detain ha duy hai , director of ha hai nga construction firm , for his alleged responsibility in a wall collapse that killed 10 people and injured 14 others 11 days ago .
the decision , which was approved by the provincial people 's procuracy , was issued may 25 , following a probe into hai 's alleged violations of work safety and hygiene regulations , under article 295 of the penal code .
hai is responsible for managing the construction of an av healthcare factory run by a south korean company that produces diapers , milk feeding bottles , and sanitary napkins in giang dien industrial park in the southern province of dong nai .
on may 14 , while a group of workers was working at the construction site , an eight-meter-high and 109-meter-long wall collapsed , burying them under the debris .
the police started investigating the case for potential construction violations with serious consequences and teamed up with the ministry of public security and the relevant agencies to determine the cause of the accident .
according to a report from the provincial government , ha hai nga company was contracted to build the factory .
laud jvc firm is responsible for designing the factory , while dong nai industrial services jsc is the supervisor .
zika infection confirmed in da nang .
a man in da nang has been found infected with the zika virus , which causes microcephaly in babies , the first case in vietnam in three years .
the unidentified man , 25 , lives in lien chieu district and is under treatment , pham hung , head of the general department of preventative medicine 's department for communicable disease control , said on monday .
the zika virus is primarily spread through mosquitoes and potentially transmitted sexually , from mother to child and through blood transfusion .
the disease it causes , zika fever , produces mild symptoms like fever , red eyes , joint pain , headache , or rash in humans .
but it is known to cause microcephaly and other brain malformations in some babies born to mothers infected during pregnancy .
microcephaly causes an abnormally small head , intellectual disability and poor motor and speech functions .
there is no vaccine yet against zika .
vietnam 's first reported case of zika virus infection was in 2016 in the south-central province of khanh hoa .
by early 2017 the country recorded 265 cases .
one baby was born with microcephaly linked to the zika virus in the central highlands province of dak lak in 2016 .
like other diseases transmitted by mosquitoes , zika virus outbreaks occur mostly during the rainy season .
in vietnam , most cases have been recorded in the south but also in the central region and the central highlands .
hundreds of marijuana plants grown in the coffee plantations discovered .
police in krông năng district in the central highlands province of đắk lắk have discovered hundreds of marijuana plants grown in the coffee plantations of two households .
the owners claimed they had only been growing the plants to feed their chickens , believing their leaves had medicinal qualities to help poultry avoid diseases .
bui thi loan , 48 years old and her brother bùi thái phong , 37 years old , both residing in trường hà hamlet , ea hồ commune have reportedly grown and harvested marijuana for a long time .
police counted 442 marijuana plants in loan 's garden and 139 in phong 's garden with the highest plant reaching 2.5m tall .
they were also nursing hundreds of young plants .
their farms were located in quiet areas and marijuana was grown together with coffee , allegedly to hide the illegal cultivation .
in 2013 , the police of h.krong pak district in the same province found 1,042 marijuana plants in a garden of a local woman .
the grower said that she used the plant to feed pigs , fish , chickens , and ducks and did not know marijuana was harmful .
loan and phong could face the fines from vnđ2 million to vnđ5 million ( us $ 85-214 ) for growing the banned plants .
vietnam investigates alleged $ 215,000 bribery by japanese firm .
vietnam is investigating reports that a japanese plastic company bribed vietnamese officials jpy25 million ( $ 215,000 ) to escape tax duties and fines .
the finance ministry has formed an investigation team to verify recent reports by some japanese newspapers including asahi that plastic firm tenma had bribed vietnamese officials on two occasions in 2017 and last year .
asahi said that tenma representatives on april 1 confessed to prosecutors in tokyo that its subsidiary tenma vietnam in june 2017 had imported a batch of molds and vietnamese officials demanded a value-added tax of jpy1.8 billion ( $ 16.7 million ) .
to avoid this obligation , the ceo of tenma vietnam , which is based in the northern province of bac ninh , had paid a senior customs official vnd 2 billion ( jpy10 million or about $ 86,000 ) in cash .
the newspaper also reported that in august last year , bac ninh tax authorities had asked tenma vietnam to pay tax dues , including corporate income tax , worth jpy89 million ( $ 826,400 ) .
tenma vietnam paid vnd 3 billion ( jpy15 million or around $ 129,000 ) in cash to tax officials to get the tax lowered to jpy2.6 million ( $ 24,300 ) , the report said .
on may 1 , tenma announced on its website that the ceo implicated in the bribery will announce his resignation at a shareholders ' meeting in june .
the company is being investigated for bribing foreign officials and violating unfair competition laws in japan .
bac ninh customs officials have denied the allegations .
pham chi thanh , deputy head of bac ninh customs department , said that tenma , as a firm involved in processing for export , is eligible for zero import and value-added tax duties under vietnamese law .
this means its imported goods does not have to pay any tax , and allegations that customs officials have received bribes for reducing the company 's tax dues are baseless , he said .
ngo xuan tong , director of bac ninh taxation department , said that apart from the newspaper report , his department has not received any official document from japanese authorities on the matter .
he said that the department had only fined the company vnd 500 million ( $ 21,500 ) for its delay in paying income tax on a portion of revenue , which are not related to the above-mentioned import tax incentives .
tenma vietnam was established at the que vo industrial park in bac ninh province in 2007 .
it produces plastic parts for vehicles and household items .
workers plunge to death as scaffolding cable snaps at dam construction site .
three people died and three others were injured after a scaffolding cable snapped at a hydropower construction site in kon tum province monday .
six workers were standing on the suspended scaffolding , drilling holes in concrete at the construction site of the plei kan hydropower project in the central highlands province when the cable snapped .
the scaffolding and workers fell from a height of 20 meters , killing three and injuring the others .
about 10 workers working nearby rushed to the accident site and helped take the victims to the emergency ward of the kon tum general hospital .
the killed workers were between 25 and 27 years old .
the plei kan hydropower plant in ngoc hoi district is a vnd 576 billion ( $ 24.6 million ) project implemented by the hanoi-based tan phat construction company .
the plant , with a designed capacity of 17 mw , is nearing completion , local authorities said .
they said work on damming the po ko river in plei kan town , dak nong commune , ngoc hoi district , began in 2018 .
it covers a total area of more than 100 hectares .
an investigation has been launched into the accident .
tree falls in saigon school , kills boy .
one student died at a saigon public school and 12 others were injured after a tree suddenly fell on them on tuesday morning .
at around 6.15 a.m , a 10-meter flamboyant tree of more than 50 years old in the yard of bach dang secondary school in district 3 toppled and fell on a group of 13 sixth grade students sitting under it , nguyen van phuc , the school principal , said .
tran hong vu , a father , witnessed what he described as chaotic when he brought his child to school this morning .
i just arrived at the gate when i heard the thundering sound of the falling tree .
then many students were screaming .
the schoolyard was in chaos .
teachers and parents quickly pulled the students out , and ambulances took them to children 's hospital no 2 .
at around 9 a.m one of the victims , who has not been identified by the school , succumbed to his injuries .
more than 20 police officers cordoned off the scene of the tragedy .
anxious parents flocked to the school to find out if their children were alright , but could not reach the management .
many parts of the city , especially districts 1 , 3 , 5 , and 10 , had received heavy rainfall on monday afternoon .
after a prolonged break since the lunar new year festival in late january due to the covid-19 pandemic , over 22 million students only returned to school this month .
sixth graders came back to school two weeks ago .
japanese firm allegedly bribes vietnamese customs officials .
the japanese media has reported that a japanese plastic firm has admitted to giving bribes to vietnamese officials to avoid paying taxes , said thanh nien online newspaper .
according to an article in asahi newspaper on may 11 , tenma vietnam voluntarily reported to prosecutors in tokyo that its affiliate in bac ninh province had given bribes totaling some 25 million japanese yen , or vnd 5.4 billion , to local customs and tax officials to dodge tax payments .
prosecutors in tokyo determined that tenma vietnam had violated japan 's laws against unhealthy competition , which prohibit firms from giving bribes to foreign officials .
tenma 's parent firm , based in tokyo , has established a committee to investigate the case .
according to an april report from the committee , tenma vietnam in june 2017 received a notice on value-added tax payments levied on imported goods worth some vnd 400 billion .
executives of tenma vietnam suggested the parent company issue bribes to local customs officials to enjoy tax exemptions or reductions .
with the approval of kento fujino , chairman of the parent company , tenma vietnam gave vnd 2 billion to vietnamese officials , asahi noted .
besides this , in june 2019 , tenma vietnam was asked to pay an additional amount of vnd 17.8 billion in taxes , as local customs officials had found that some of its earnings were not subject to preferential tax policies .
therefore , tenma vietnam paid some vnd 3 billion to the officials to reduce the tax amount from vnd 17.8 billion to some vnd 567.7 million , according to the nikkei .
tenma voluntarily submitted the investigation results to the tokyo court on april 1 .
it has yet to comment on the case .
established in 1949 , tenma specializes in plastic shelf manufacturing , with combined revenue reaching 84.7 billion yen at the end of march 2019 .
japan 's panasonic to move some production to vietnam next year .
japanese appliance-maker panasonic corp said that next year it will move its thai-based production of refrigerators and washing machines to vietnam .
panasonic will reorganize its white goods production sites in southeast asia , and transfer the production of washing machines and refrigerators in thailand to vietnam , the company said on thursday in a statement emailed to reuters .
panasonic will dismiss about 800 workers in thailand , a company spokeswoman told reuters , adding that the move is part of its plan to improve cost efficiency .
panasonic would try to place some of the workers in other jobs based on their qualifications , the spokeswoman said .
panasonic appliances ( thailand ) and a research and development center will close by the end of march 2021 .
after the closures , panasonic will still have around 13,700 workers involved in the manufacture of small appliances and batteries in thailand .
environment ministry proposes promoting eco-friendly vehicles .
the ministry of natural resources and environment has proposed launching support policies and preferential programs for the use of vehicles powered by renewable energy to ease air pollution , according to a report the ministry has sent to the prime minister .
the ministry noted that the leader of the ministry had written this report based on international studies on the management and development of environmentally-friendly vehicles .
to reduce air pollution from vehicle emissions effectively , the ministry proposed the prime minister consider and submit its plan to offer preferential policies and programs to incentivize the consumption of renewable energy and electric vehicles to the national assembly .
the ministry also proposed the prime minister assign other ministries and departments to prepare to follow new regulations in the amended law on environmental protection on air pollution control , greenhouse gas emission reduction and support for the production and the use of eco-friendly vehicles .
accordingly , the ministry of transport should cooperate with the relevant ministries and agencies to step up the strategy to develop environmentally friendly transport services , vietnamplus news site reported , citing the ministry of natural resources and environment 's proposals .
also , the ministry of finance should work with the ministry of natural resources and environment to submit a plan to the prime minister to add environmentally friendly vehicles , such as electric automobiles , hybrid vehicles and those powered by bio-fuels and compressed natural gas .
two vietnamese businessmen back on forbes billionaires list .
fish sauce magnate nguyen dang quang and steel tycoon tran dinh long have reappeared on forbes ' list of billionaires .
quang , chairman and founder of private food producer masan group , is 2,109th on the real time billionaires ranking updated by the us magazine friday with a net worth of $ 1 billion .
this data is updated based on changes in the price of msn shares on the stock exchange , which account a majority of quang 's assets .
at the end of friday 's trading session , an msn share was worth vnd 62,000 ( $ 2.65 ) , up 27 percent against the end of march when forbes updated the value of billionaires ' assets , while tcb 's share of private lender techcombank , in which quang holds 9.4 million shares , also rose by 41 percent .
quang made it to the forbes list for the first time last year with a net worth of $ 1.3 billion .
he founded masan , a major producer of fish sauce and packaged foods , in 2004 .
meanwhile , long , chairman of vietnam 's leading steel manufacturer hoa phat , was placed 2,122nd on the forbes billionaires list with a net worth of $ 1 billion as the value of the hoa phat ( hpg ) stock increasing significantly .
at the end of friday 's trading session , hpg 's share price stood at vnd 27,300 ( $ 1.16 ) , up 68 percent against last march .
long founded hoa phat in hanoi in 1992 .
the group currently manufactures office equipment , steel pipes and construction steel . and it is the biggest steelmaker in vietnam .
long , who entered the forbes list of world 's richest people for the first time in 2018 , is one of the largest shareholders of the hoa phat group with over 700 million shares , equivalent to more than 25 percent of its chartered capital , according to the group 's management report .
vietnam had four representatives in forbes ' annual list of the world 's richest people in 2020 released last month .
they are pham nhat vuong , owner of vietnam 's biggest real estate conglomerate vingroup and the country 's first billionaire . nguyen thi phuong thao , ceo of carrier vietjet air . tran ba duong , chairman of truong hai auto corporation ( thaco ) . and ho hung anh , chairman of techcombank .
china says virus pushing us ties to brink of cold war .
china said sunday that its relations with the united states were on the brink of a new cold war , fuelled partly by tensions over the coronavirus pandemic that has killed nearly 350,000 people worldwide and pitched the global economy into a massive downturn .
more european nations meanwhile moved to ease their lockdowns , with virus trends improving and summer nearing .
they loosened restrictions that have kept restaurants , bars , and hotels shuttered , devastating tourism , and they moved toward reopening more schools .
globally , more than 5,3 million people have been infected by the virus , which most scientists believe jumped from animals to humans – possibly late last year at a market in the central chinese city of wuhan .
us president donald trump has accused beijing of a lack of transparency over the outbreak , suggesting the virus may have leaked from a top-security chinese laboratory .
chinese foreign minister wang yi said sunday that washington seemed infected by a political virus but that beijing would nevertheless be open to an international effort to find the coronavirus source .
while once hard-hit european nations relax lockdowns as they work to salvage battered economies , other countries such as brazil are emerging as new centres of the pandemic .
trump on sunday suspended travel to the us by non-americans leaving from brazil .
there was no immediate comment from the brazilian government , run by trump ally president jair bolsonaro , who has been dismissive of the virus and of lockdown measures .
the us death toll rose sunday night to 97,686 , according to the johns hopkins university , with more than 1.64 million cases of infection .
the us is by far the country worst hit .
taiwan promises 'necessary assistance ' to hong kong 's people .
taiwan will provide the people of hong kong with necessary assistance , taiwan leader tsai ing-wen said , after a resurgence in protests in the chinese ruled territory against newly proposed national security legislation from beijing .
taiwan has become a refuge for a small but growing number of pro-democracy protesters fleeing hong kong , which has been convulsed since last year by protests .
hong kong police fired tear gas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people who rallied on sunday to protest against beijing 's plan to impose national security laws on the city .
writing on her facebook page late on sunday , tsai said the proposed legislation was a serious threat to hong kong 's freedoms and judicial independence .
bullets and repression are not the way to deal with the aspirations of hong kong 's people for freedom and democracy , she added .
in face of the changing situation , the international community has proactively stretched out a helping hand to hong kong 's people , tsai wrote .
taiwan will even more proactively perfect and forge ahead with relevant support work , and provide hong kong 's people with necessary assistance , she wrote .
taiwan has no law on refugees that could be applied to hong kong protesters who seek asylum on the island .
its laws do promise , though , to help hong kong citizens whose safety and liberty are threatened for political reasons .
the hong kong protests have won widespread sympathy in taiwan , and the support for the protesters by tsai and her administration have worsened already poor ties between taipei and beijing .
china has accused supporters of taiwan independence of colluding with the protesters .
china believes tsai to be a separatist bent on declaring the island 's formal independence .
tsai says taiwan is already an independent country called the republic of china , its official name .
coastal road to be built in thanh hóa province .
a new coastal road will be built between hoằng hóa-sầm sơn and quảng xương-tĩnh gia in the central province of thanh hóa under a public-private partnership .
the project , approved by deputy prime minister trịnh đình dũng , will cost vnđ3.4 trillion ( us $ 145.9 million ) , of which vnđ1.4 trillion ( $ 60.1 million ) will come from the state budget .
the thanh hóa province will contribute vnđ980 billion ( $ 42.1 million ) and the remaining funds of more than vnđ1 trillion ( $ 43.8 million ) will come from investors .
the project will be conducted under a build-operate-transfer ( bot ) contract and will be 29.5km long .
the first part between hoằng hóa-sầm sơn is 12.3km in length .
it starts in hoằng ngọc commune , hoằng hóa district and ends in the nghi sơn economic zone in quảng châu ward , sầm sơn city .
the second part from quảng xương-tĩnh gia is 17.2km .
it starts at the nghi sơn economic zone and ends in ninh hải commune , tĩnh gia district .
investors will set up tollbooths to pay back the capital based on present laws .
the estimated time for collecting road use fees to recover capital is 24 years and two months – from 2023 to 2047 .
official time will be defined via bidding to select investors following present laws .
german pharma giant ceo to vietnam fined for nine-dash line mistake .
the malaysian ceo of bayer vietnam was fined vnd 30 million ( $ 1,300 ) thursday for forwarding staff a document containing china 's infamous nine-dash line .
the punishment , imposed by ho chi minh city 's department of information and communications , came days after lynette moey yu lin , a malaysian of chinese origin , admitted sharing the document on china 's successful covid-19 campaign with nine department heads late last month .
these managers were supposed to subsequently forward it to lower-ranking staff .
the demarcation line , claiming 90 percent of the 3.5-million-square-kilometer east sea , known internationally as the south china sea , has met strong opposition from the international community .
after protests from several vietnamese employees , bayer retracted the document .
bayer ag is a german multinational pharmaceutical and life sciences company .
in vietnam , the company has been present for over 25 years , employing about 700 people .
last year , vietnam also fined several companies for their dissemination of the nine-dash line .
saigontourist , a leading vietnamese travel company , was fined vnd 50 million ( $ 2,200 ) for using brochures depicting china 's illegal claims .
cgv , vietnam 's largest cinema chain , was fined vnd 170 million ( $ 7,400 ) for licensing the film abominable that includes the nine-dash demarcation .
vietnam has repeatedly affirmed it holds legal and historical evidence to assert its sovereignty over the hoang sa ( paracel ) and truong sa ( spratly ) islands in the east sea , as well as its legal rights over its waters in accordance with the united nations convention on the law of the sea ( unclos ) .
court upholds prison sentence against former hcmc official in murky land handover .
former director of the hcmc department of natural resources and environment dao anh kiet had his 6.5-year prison sentence upheld , following his earlier conviction in the illegal handover of public land to notorious real estate tycoon phan van anh vu .
the hcmc high-level people 's court on friday turned down all appeals filed by the 63-year-old kiet and three other individuals , in connection with the illegal handover of the 5,000-square-meter property at no.15 thi sach street in district 1 to one of vu 's firms , bac nam 79 construction jsc , reported the local media .
the three others convicted in the scheme were truong van ut , 50 , former deputy head of the department 's land management division . le van thanh , 57 , former deputy chief of the hcmc people 's committee office . and nguyen thanh chuong , 45 , former head of the office 's urban division .
the panel of judges said the behaviors , and roles played by the four defendants , were the basis of the first-instance trial in december 2019 , and they failed to provide any new extenuating circumstances at this appeal trial .
given this , the jury rejected their appeals and upheld the initial sentences .
therefore , kiet will have to spend six-and-a-half years in prison , ut – five years , thanh – four years , and chuong – three years , for irregularities in the management and use of state assets , leading to losses and wastefulness .
the 44-year-old vu , who moonlighted as an operative for the general department of intelligence with the ministry of public security in 2009 and left the organization in 2017 , was found to have proposed that the then-leaders of the ministry sign various legal documents that were sent to the hcmc people 's committee in 2014 .
the aim of the proposal was to enable his company , as a front for the ministry 's general department of intelligence , to lease the no.15 thi sach street property with a no-bid contract for the ministry 's professional operations , according to the indictment .
since the proposal was granted , his company has collaborated with other firms to execute a construction project for vu 's personal gain .
the indictment states that nguyen huu tin , 62 , who was the municipal deputy chairman in charge of construction and land management between 2011 and 2016 , had approved the lease deal in june 2015 , restricting the company from being able to transfer , sublease or mortgage the prime land or raise revenues through the sale or lease of its land-use rights .
however , tin signed another decision later that year allowing the company to become an investor for a trading , service and apartment complex project .
he later instructed the company to work with the city 's agencies to complete preparatory procedures for the project .
as a result , the local government approved the project in may 2016 .
kiet , ut , thanh and chuong allegedly sought advice from tin in handing over the land to the company .
the company was not required to pay compensation for assets and architectural objects on the land , nor rent for the land , which flouted prevailing regulations .
their errors caused state losses of vnd 6.7 billion .
also , vu and his partners have built a 18-story building and later put it up for sale and lease , earning revenues of more than vnd 1 trillion .
in this case , tin , the city 's former leader , did not appeal his seven-year prison sentence .
vietnam confirms new covid-19 infection from abroad .
a woman on a repatriation flight from russia was confirmed vietnam 's latest covid-19 case sunday morning , taking the active cases tally to 58 .
patient 325 is a 34-year-old woman from the northern province of ninh binh .
she returned from russia on vietnam airlines flight vn0062 , landing may 13 at the van don airport in northern quang ninh province .
she tested negative on arrival and positive on may 21 .
she 's being treated at the hospital of tropical diseases in the northern town of hai duong .
she had been infected with the novel coronavirus in russia , but was announced recovered before she returned to vietnam .
so far , 32 people on the vn0062 flight have been confirmed infected with covid-19 , including 30 passengers and two crew members .
they were all quarantined upon arrival .
the nation 's covid-19 tally has gone up to 325 with 185 of them imported and the remaining caused by community transmission .
the last community transmission case was recorded on april 16 .
there has been no covid-19 death in vietnam to date .
the country 's most seriously ill case , patient 91 , a 43-year-old british man , was temporarily taken off continuous renal replacement therapy ( crrt ) saturday .
he remains in critical condition and on life support , depending almost entirely on ecmo ( extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ) .
ecmo is a technique that pumps blood out of the body and to a heart-lung machine that removes carbon dioxide and sends oxygen-filled blood back .
crrt is a technique that replaces the normal blood-filtering function of the kidneys , helping them heal and prevent further damage .
the covid-19 pandemic has affected 213 countries and territories , with more than 343,500 deaths reported .
central vietnam port refuses foreign cruise ships as coronavirus drops anchor .
chan may port in central thua thien-hue province decided friday to stop receiving all international cruise ships as the covid-19 threat escalates .
the decision follows vietnam recording 28 coronavirus cases as of friday morning after the country going 22 days without any new infection .
the world health organization on friday named europe the epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic .
earlier , 24 international cruise ships canceled plans to dock at chan may port over covid-19 concerns .
located on the central coast , hue , capital of thua thien-hue province , was home to the nguyen dynasty ( 1802-1945 ) , vietnam 's last royal family .
the town stands out from other parts of the country with its imperial citadel and royal tombs .
diamond princess on january 27 visited chan may port before docking at ha long international cruise port quang ninh province , home to ha long bay , a day later .
the ship was placed under two-week quarantine on arrival at japan 's yokohama city on february 3 after dozens of passengers , out of a total 3,700 , tested positive for covid-19 .
so far , 700 passengers on board have been infected with the disease while seven had died .
bahamian-flagged silver spirit , owned by silversea cruises , carrying many italian passengers and crew members , was denied permission to dock in saigon on friday over fears someone onboard might carry the virus .
aida vita , operated by german company aida cruises , was refused permission to dock in quang ninh province on february 13 , over the same fears .
doctors remove toothpick from female patient 's anus .
doctors from hoàn mỹ-đà nẵng hospital have successful removed a toothpick from a patient 's anus after she swallowed while sleeping .
dr.ly nhuthanh from the hospital said the patient , named t. , 48 , from quảng nam province , was taken to the hospital on wednesday with severe pain and bleeding from her anus .
he said , endoscopy showed a 2cm object was stuck in the patient 's rectum , causing bleeding .
doctors were able to remove the toothpick from the patient 's anus , and she has been recovering well following the procedure .
the patient said she used a toothpick after dinner at home on wednesday , but kept it in her mouth during the night .
doctors said the patient had swallowed the toothpick while she was sleeping .
they suggested that dental floss could be used instead of a toothpick to avoid damage to gums , as well as related injuries and accidental swallowing .
a photo of airpod pro case with assembled in vietnam message .
the nikkei asian review had previously reported that airpods have been mass-produced in vietnam since early march , quoting .
the vietnamese officials even granted special permits for a key apple airpods assembler to help the company bring in engineers to the country for smooth production during lockdowns .
however , this factory did not assemble the high-end airpods pro .
on social media and online forums , the airpods pros made in vietnam have received positive reviews .
a person with the account name mrgimper wrote in the macrumors forum .
i am quite surprised that apple is manufacturing airpods pro in vietnam .
i am using the second-generation of airpods assembled in vietnam and am very pleased with the quality of the product .
i hope it will be the same for the airpods pro .
cole slaw said .
apple is diversifying its supply chain and that 's good for the world .
i hope other us companies will follow suit to reduce their dependence on china .
the 'technology lovers ' section on china 's weibo said .
this is the first time a new apple device has been made outside of china .
many other apple manufacturing partners are also planning to move out of china .
vietnam is an attractive destination because of cheap labor and good infrastructure .
this is not the first time apple is diversifying its manufacturing base .
in 2017 it assembled some iphone models in india .
in june last year the nikkei asian review reported that apple had asked its suppliers to look for ways to shift 15 percent to 30 percent of production from china to other parts of southeast asia amid the trade war between the world 's two largest economies .
in the past few months apple has listed many job vacancies in vietnam on linkedin .
hcmc pushes ahead with vietnam 's silicon valley plan .
the prime minister 's support for the 'vietnam 's silicon valley ' initiative has prompted hcmc to push ahead with a plan to merge three districts into one administrative unit .
the plan , which will to combine districts 2 , 9 and thu duc into one administrative unit and make it an innovative urban area , has been submitted by the municipal home affairs department to the ho chi minh city people 's committee .
the department has come up with the plan following a meeting between prime minister nguyen xuan phuc and the city on may 8 .
the plan to make a city within a city , temporarily called the eastern town , won the pm 's endorsement .
this area has been in the making since 2017 .
it would encompass the hi-tech park in district 9 , the university precinct in thu duc district and the new urban area and financial center on the thu thiem peninsula in district 2 .
the eastern town is also expected to contribute to the establishment of value added chains based on high technology , modern technical and social infrastructure of international standards , and effective financial support for businesses .
it was to play a key role in linking scientific and technical research with commercial production to lift residents ' lifestyle to international standards .
le van thanh of the hcmc institute for development studies had said .
this will be vietnam 's silicon valley .
the innovative hub would cover more than 22,000 hectares ( 54,300 acres ) with a population of over 1.1 million .
once the plan is implemented , hcmc will have 22 instead of 24 districts .
at the may 8 meeting , pm phuc , while endorsing the merger of districts , said its official name will be decided later .
he also assigned the ministry of justice to guide the city on the next steps to take .
former deputy defence minister on trial for land fraud .
a navy court martial on monday opened the first instance hearing regarding the mismanagement of defence land in hcm city 's district 1 in which former deputy defence minister nguyễn văn hiến , other navy officials and company leaders are accused .
according to the verdict of the central military procuracy , when hiến was deputy defence minister and commander of the viet nam people 's navy , he signed and approved the use of defence land on tôn đức thắng street , bến nghé ward for economic purposes without verifying the information provided by his subordinates .
this broke defence ministry and government regulations , as well as the 2013 land law .
hiến is accused of failing to supervise financial contributions and ignoring orders from the defence ministry .
these included his duty to verify why authorisation was given to a hải thành company director to sign venture contracts , which resulted in partners using land-use rights certificates to take out mortages , change the nature of the ownership and transfer the land to third parties .
as a result , the navy lost the right to manage and use three plots of land for 49 years , causing losses of vnđ939 billion to the state budget .
on monday , nguyễn văn hiến , 67 and retired , was charged with lack of responsibility , causing serious consequences in accordance with clause 3 , article 360 of the 2015 penal code .
those accused of fraud and appropriation of assets included đinh ngọc hệ , deputy general director of the thái sơn corporation under the ministry of national defence , and chairman and general director of the thái sơn development and investment jsc .
phạm văn diệt , general director of the đức bình group joint stock company and managing director of the yên khánh production , trading service limited company .
and vu thihoan , director of the yên khánh production , trading service limited company and director of the yên khánh hải thành limited company .
bui nhu thiem , former head of the economics division at the viet nam people 's navy .
bui van nga , former director of the hài thành service and sea island tourism one-member limited liability company at the viet nam people 's navy .
and tran trong tuan , deputy director of the hải thành service and sea island tourism one-member limited liability company , are also being prosecuted for violating regulations on land management .
at its 12th plenum last week , the party central committee considered and decided upon disciplinary measures against hiến - expelling him from the party .
bui nhu thiem , doan manh thao , bui van nga and tran ngoc tuan were accused of making false proposals that led to hiến 's lack of oversight and subsequent approval of the documents , which caused great losses .
dinh ngoc he , pham van duyet and vu thi hoan were accused of acting fraudulently by forging signatures to transfer land use rights from hải thành company to yên khánh hải thành company for use as collateral for bank loans .
at a trial on july 31 , 2018 , the military court of military zone 7 sentenced đinh ngọc hệ to ten years in jail for abusing his position and power while performing duties , and another two years for using falsified documents from agencies and organisations .
according to the central military procuracy , when signing venture contracts the accused ignored land prices set by the hcm city people 's committee and agreed on deals for far less money .
as a result , between september 4 , 2006 to 2018 , the state lost over vnđ20 billion .
hien , thiem , nga and thap were convicted of being complicit to the loss .
however , on monday the central military procuracy overturned that ruling as there was not enough evidence to support the convictions .
the first instance hearing is expected to run until may 20 .
hoa binh court sentences 15 in high school exam cheating scandal .
the people 's court of hòa bình province on thursday sentenced 15 defendants involved in the 2017-18 national high school exam cheating scandal in which dozens of candidates had their exam scores raised so they could graduate high school and enroll in universities or colleges .
thirteen out of 15 defendants were charged with abuse of power while performing their official duties to inflate the exam scores of students .
nguyen quang vinh , 54 , former head of the testing and quality assurance unit under hoa binh province 's education and training department was given eight years in jail for abuse of power while performing official duties .
khương ngọc chất , 39 , former head of the internal political security division under the hòa bình police , diệp thị hồng liên , former vice head of the testing and quality assurance unit and nguyễn khắc tuấn , an official of the unit were sentenced to six , five and three years in jail , respectively , for the same charge .
do manh tuan , 41 , former vice-principal of lac thuy district secondary and high school was given seven years in jail for receiving bribes and three years for abuse of power .
ho chuc , 45 , a former teacher of thanh hà high school in lac thuy district was sentenced to 30 months in prison for giving bribes .
other defendants who are former education officials and teachers in the province were given 15 to 30 months either in jail or suspended for abuse of power while performing their official duties .
according to the indictment , the defendants have taken advantage of their positions and made use of their relationships to collude and intervene to raise the marks of candidates in the national high school exam in 2017 and 2018 .
the intervention raised marks for 65 candidates who sat for the national exam in 2018 and one candidate who sat for the national exam in 2017 .
of the candidates benefiting from the scheme , 45 were forced to quit school after their exams were re-marked objectively , ten others could continue their university courses as their remarked scores were eligible for university admission .
six other candidates did not attend university courses even though their re-marked scores met universities ' requirements , one candidate failed to get university admission while another candidate did not apply for any university or college .
court rejects defendants ' appeal in fake medicine case .
the people 's court in hcm city on wednesday upheld the verdict handed down at the first-instance trial in a case involving the manufacturing and trading of counterfeit medicine .
at the first-instance trial that concluded in october , nguyen minh hung , former general director of viet nam pharma joint stock company ( vn pharma ) , was sentenced to 17 years in prison , and võ mạnh cường , former director of h & c international maritime trading co. , ltd , to 20 years .
both faced charges of manufacturing and trading counterfeit medicines for treatment or prevention of diseases under article 157 of the penal code , according to the city 's people 's procuracy .
the remaining 10 defendants were sentenced from three to 12 years in prison .
hung did not appeal after the first-instance trial .
however , seven of the 12 defendants in the case , including cường , filed an appeal against the verdict reached at the first-instance trial .
cuong said he did not play a mastermind role as mentioned in the first-instance verdict and that he did not know the drugs were counterfeit .
but the city 's people 's procuracy rejected biện minh này , saying cường directly contacted people who made counterfeit drugs and asked for permission to import the batch of fake drugs .
according to the people 's procuracy , the wrongful acts of the defendants were dangerous to society and the sentence at the first-instance trial was lawful and appropriate .
vn pharma was established in october 2011 with the capital of vnđ25 billion ( us $ 1.075 million ) , rising to vnđ40 billion in 2014 .
hùng owns most of the shares .
since its operation , the company has imported various kinds of drugs .
from 2013 to 2014 , hùng ordered cường to buy imported medicine that was allegedly manufactured by canada 's helix pharmaceuticals company and supply the drugs to vietnamese hospitals .
the order included 9,300 boxes of 500mg capsules of h-capita , a cancer treatment drug .
the consignment was worth around vnđ5.3 billion .
hung said he ordered his staff to fake documents related to the drugs and submit them to the drug administration of viet nam , which operates under the ministry of health .
hung also faked receipts and payment procedures to acquire import licences from the ministry .
in april 2014 , the drug administration of viet nam questioned the origin of the drugs and decided to inspect the company 's shipments .
the ministry of health concluded that the h-capita 500mg batch contained 97 percent of the active ingredient capecitabine , which is of unknown origin and poor quality , and must not be used as a medicine for humans .
the procuracy said hùng 's actions caused damage of more than vnđ6 billion ( us $ 255,320 ) to vn pharma .
the court on wednesday also asked the ministry of health to examine whether import companies have inflated drug prices to give commissions to doctors to sell the drugs .
this has resulted in high prices for imported drugs in viet nam , seriously affecting the quality of life , especially for the poor .
astrazeneca ready to supply potential vaccine in september .
drugs giant astrazeneca has announced it is ready to provide a potential new coronavirus vaccine from september .
the firm said it had concluded deals to deliver at least 400 million doses of the vaccine , which it is developing with oxford university .
astrazeneca said it was capable of producing one billion doses of the azd1222 vaccine this year and next .
initial trials are under way and astrazeneca said it recognised that the vaccine might not work .
but the company said it was committed to advancing the clinical programme .
scientists have warned that a coronavirus vaccine , if developed , might not confer full immunity , while prime minister boris johnson has warned that a vaccine might never be found .
despite these reservations , intensive research continues , with about 80 groups around the world working on possible vaccines .
astrazeneca indicated that production would take place in more than one country .
it thanked the uk and us governments for substantial support to accelerate the development and production of the vaccine .
astrazeneca chief executive pascal soriot described the coronavirus pandemic as a global tragedy and a challenge for all of humanity .
we need to defeat the virus together or it will continue to inflict huge personal suffering and leave long-lasting economic and social scars in every country around the world , he said .
we are so proud to be collaborating with oxford university to turn their ground-breaking work into a medicine that can be produced on a global scale .
company director arrested following deadly wall collapse .
the director of the construction company responsible for building a wall which collapsed killing 10 people has been arrested .
ha duy hai , director of ha hai nga co ltd , has been detained by police in the southern province of đồng nai .
the 56-year-old 's company was contracted to carrying work at av healthcare company at the giang điền industrial park .
but on may 14 , part of the eight metre high , 109m long wall collapsed , leaving 10 people dead and injuring another 14 .
right after the accident , the prime minister sent a notice to the people 's committee of đồng nai province , ordering a prompt investigation into the case and strict punishment of violations in line with legal regulations .
av healthcare company has leased more than 21,000 sq.m of land at the giang điền industrial park to build a factory specialising in producing diapers , milk bottles and tampons .
it hired a company as the constructor of the project .
five million 'made-in-viet nam ' medical protective equipment transported to new york .
a vietnamese company has shipped five million medical protective supplies to authorities in new york , us .
huynh quoc dinh , director of super cargo service said the protective suits , face masks and gloves had been transported to new york to support the hard-hit city in the fight against covid-19 .
the company has co-operated with four airlines - ethiopia airlines , cathay pacific , eva airlines and philippines airlines – to transport the equipment on eight big-sized planes .
the new york authorities reportedly received the last batch on may 20 's afternoon ( local time ) , he said .
in early may , cbs news reported that new york mayor york bill de blasio had discussed buying medical protective equipment from viet nam .
he said the city had ordered a factory in viet nam to manufacture the equipment in large quantities for the to help the us city .
new york is one of the biggest coronavirus hot spots in the us with more than 364,000 positive cases and more than 28,700 deaths as of the morning may 21 .
health ministry considers repatriating british pilot after being treated for coronavirus .
the 43-year-old british pilot working for national flag carrier vietnam airlines , identified as the country 's patient no .
91 , has tested negative six times for the novel strain of the coronavirus sars-cov-2 .
a sample of the virus taken from the patient and cultivated in the hcm city pasteur institute shows that he has developed immunity and wo n't get reinfected by the virus .
chợ rẫy hospital in hcm city has received the patient from the hcm city hospital for tropical diseases , where he has been treated since he was confirmed to be positive for the virus in mid-march , to continue providing intensive care , treat his underlying conditions , and manage the infections .
the patient will receive frequent consultations from the leading medical experts of the country to determine the optimal time to carry out a lung transplant operation , as his lung functions have deteriorated and he remains on life support .
assoc.prof.lương ngọc khuê , director of the medical examination and treatment management department under the health ministry , said via the uk embassy in việt nam , the health ministry has not been able to contact any of the patient 's direct relatives .
they have received information about a relative of the patient in the uk , but there has not yet been any response regarding the patient 's treatment and possible repatriation , given that organ transplant can only be conducted with the relative 's consent as long as the patient remains unconscious .
khuê said that a foreign doctor working in medical transport in việt nam has contacted him and volunteered to bring the patient back to the uk , but the matter is being considered by the health ministry 's leadership .
the patient reportedly has no insurance , but the costs for a lung transplant is already covered by donations from a benefactor organisation .
in just a week , more than 59 people – the oldest 76 years old , and the youngest 21 years old – have come forward to register to donate their lungs for the patient following reports of doctors looking at the possibility of a lung transplant to save his life , khuê said , adding that this showcases the spirit of solidarity and compassion of the vietnamese people .
another option on the table is to repatriate the patient since he is now treated of covid-19 , but there are many complicating issues that may render the plan infeasible .
the patient remains in a coma and still relies on ecmo ( extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ) for survival , so we need to wait until the patient is awake and recovers , then we can make an appropriate plan , the health official remarked .
so far , the treatment for the british pilot has lasted two months and three days , with the patient needing to be placed on life support for 46 days .
the latest ct scan of the patient 's lungs show they have improved by about 20-30 per cent , while the patient 's pulse and blood pressure have stabilised .
lgbt-themed movie a netflix vietnam favorite .
goodbye mother , an lgbt-themed movie , is the sole local production in netflix vietnam 's ranking of 10 most-watched dramas .
data thus far has shown that vietnamese overwhelmingly favor south korean tv dramas over other content on netflix vietnam , accounting for six of the top 10 most-watched shows friday .
topping the list was money heist , a spanish television crime drama series on a bank robbery .
it is not often that a vietnamese film breaks into the list of most popular shows among vietnamese audiences since netflix , worldwide streamer of movies and tv shows , began releasing its daily list since late february .
goodbye mother , screened on netflix since april 1 last year , depicts the drama of van and his boyfriend ian , who 've just returned to vietnam from the us .
the couple are initially unable to come out about their relationship because of the taboo involved , especially in rural vietnam .
this leads to friction between them , and van is forced to explain the nature of their relationship to his mother .
the movie is the directorial debut of trinh dinh le minh , who studied directing at the university of texas in the us .
he had done a few short films before embarking on his first full-length feature film .
netflix has been available in vietnam since 2016 at vnd 180,000 ( $ 7.8 ) a month for a basic subscription .
it now boasts a total 31 vietnamese films covering romantic , comedy , action to horror and adventure genres .
the service , with around 167 million subscribers in over 190 countries and territories by q4 2019 , has been seeking to produce and acquire rights for more asian content to increase its number of global subscribers .
netflix launched its vietnamese language website last october .
golden kite award recognises actress ' efforts .
actress hồng diễm won the golden kite for her performance in television series hoa hồng trên ngực trái ( rose on left chest ) last week .
it was her first award for her ten-year career in the film industry .
she said in an interview with the actress about the award and her career , i 'm moved because it is the first award in my career .
it also surprised me a lot .
i did not think that the leading role in a television series would win me the award .
i 'm happy .
i want to thank the judges , the crew , and the fans for recognizing my efforts .
hồng diễm was a model before she became an actress .
it 's taken her a long time to gain success in film .
i think that winning an award is not just about talent because you also need some luck .
i was the luckiest among the nominees at the gold kite awards .
she said , this award encouraged her and also challenges her .
i have to work harder in different types of roles .
i have never been asked to perform the role of a strong character or a gangster .
i think directors want me in roles they know i can play , so i have n't had much choice .
normally , i perform the role of a woman who accepts her fate , but sometimes this type of role bores me .
i like performing a role that is different and my part in rose on left chest gave me that chance .
i like the role and can sympathize with the character .
i understand what she has to endure and why she finds it difficult to get a divorce .
gold bullion producer reports huge profit surge .
the state-owned saigon jewelry company recorded vnd 52.45 billion ( $ 2.25 million ) in post-tax profits last year , up 88.8 percent year-on-year .
revenue rose 10.8 percent year-on-year to vnd 23.13 trillion ( $ 990.68 million ) , which puts the jewelry firm 's net profit margin at around 0.3 percent , according to saigon jewelry company 's ( sjc ) newly released audited financial statements for 2019 .
the company has set a revenue target of vnd 25.7 trillion ( $ 1.11 billion ) in 2020 .
sjc is vietnam 's national gold brand and the sole producer of gold bullion in the country .
the company has held around 90 percent of vietnam 's gold bullion market .
established in 1988 , saigon jewelry company is a wholly state-owned enterprise under the people 's committee of ho chi minh city .
the company primarily produces and trades gold bars and jewelry , but also has investments in real estate , finance , and services .
the company 's profit-making was at its highest between 2011 and 2013 when sjc made around vnd 200-300 billion ( $ 8.57-12.85 million ) in post-tax profits each year .
this fell to less than vnd 100 billion ( $ 4.28 million ) after the sbv tightened regulations on gold trading , alongside a cooling of vietnam 's domestic gold market , the company statement said .
sjc is one of 27 state-owned enterprises awaiting equitization , following which the state 's stake will be less than 50 percent .
the equitization is set to take place this year under a plan set out by the prime minister .
trà vinh farmers expand organic rice areas .
the cuu long ( mekong ) delta province of tra vinh has encouraged farmers to expand environmentally friendly organic rice fields that have improved the quality of rice and soil fertility .
in cầu ngang , more than 100 farmers in cầu ngang 's mỹ hòa , kim hòa , vinh kim and hiep hoa communes signed a contract in 2017 with a company to grow organic rice on a total area of 82ha .
the company provided farmers with techniques such as sowing , fertilising , disease management , and harvest methods .
the company also supplied materials , and it guaranteed outlets for the farmers .
in the first organic rice crop , the farmers earned a profit of vnđ30 million ( us $ 1,300 ) per hectare per crop , up vnđ6 million ( $ 260 ) compared to normal farming methods .
organic rice fields use less fertiliser and do not use chemicals .
farmers can also breed aquatic species in ditches in the rice fields to earn additional income , or rotate rice and aquatic species on the same fields .
thạch mara , who has planted organic rice in hiep hoa commune since 2017 , said rice grown under organic standards develops well and adapts to climate change .
in his first crop , his 0.4ha rice field had a yield of 6 tonnes per ha , up one tonne compared to traditional farming methods .
he expanded the organic rice area to 0.7ha this year .
tran hong nghiep , an agricultural official in hiep hoa , said to encourage farmers to grow organic rice , the commune guarantees outlets for farmers and link them with others who produce organic rice .
the commune 's organic rice co-operative group has called on farmers to join the group which can easily link up with companies and access government support policies .
the group now has 49 members who grow a total of 52ha of organic rice .
its members who rotate organic rice cultivation and black tiger shrimp or giant river prawn breeding on their rice fields earn a profit of vnđ50 - 60 million ( $ 2,200 - 2,600 ) per ha for each shrimp crop .
nguyen ngoc hai , deputy director of the province 's department of agriculture and rural development , said that farmers , companies and the state have developed linkages under the organic model , which has improved the value and quality of the province 's rice .
besides the health benefits of organic food , organic farming improves soil fertility and protects aquatic resources .
trà vinh grows more than 200,000ha of rice each year , but has only a few hundred ha of rice planted under organic standards .
the coastal province plans to increase its organic rice area to 1,000ha by the end of this year and to 2,500ha by 2030 .
long an province faces severe water shortage .
the drought-hit mekong delta province of long an this year needs more fresh water , but can only supply about 50 per cent of demand from its 35 fresh water treatment plants and stations .
nearly 736,000cu.m of water will be needed by 2030 , according to the province 's planning on water supply .
currently , its plants can only supply 206,000cu.m of fresh water .
it lacks more than 215,000cu.m of fresh water to serve industrial and urban development and people 's daily activities .
in urban areas , fresh water is supplied by small and medium-sized plants operated by long an water supply sewerage joint stock company , kiến tường water supply sewerage and environment joint stock company , and others .
in rural areas , small water supply stations provide water to fewer than 300 households .
nearly 40 per cent of the province 's residents use fresh water , which is lower than the average national rate .
authorities are concerned that the problem could become severe if they do not have solutions .
the province 's people 's committee has instructed relevant agencies to adjust water supply to increase the usage rate among residents .
the province also wants to reduce underground water exploitation gradually , and attract investment to build a network of fresh water supply stations .
it has asked ministries for funds to build five sluices to prevent saltwater intrusion in the provinces of long an and tiền giang , near vàm cỏ tây river which supplies the rạch chanh water plant .
the province plans to build a reservoir to store fresh water in thạnh hóa district to supply water to nearly 12,000 households and for agricultural and industrial production .
in cần đước district 's phước tuy commune , which faced water shortage in the dry season , residents now have access to fresh water after the commune 's people 's committee allocated funds to upgrade water supply pipelines and presented water containers to people who live far from water wells .
people have also been encouraged to use water economically .
the committee has called on enterprises to invest in water wells .
the commune has nine wells that supply water to more than 2,000 households .
long an is one of several mekong delta provinces severely affected by drought and saltwater intrusion every year .
more than 8,000 households in the province lack fresh water .
in a similar situation , trees in mangrove forests in mekong delta sóc trăng province 's vĩnh châu town have died or are dying because of water shortage , according to the town 's forest protection bureau .
trees have died in a 1.5ha mangrove forest managed by the town 's people 's committee and in a 175ha mangrove forest managed by the bureau .
the mangrove forests are mostly white mangrove and spotted mangrove more than 10 years old .
the upgrading and construction of a sea dike and a dam outside the mangrove forests to prevent saltwater intrusion has contributed to water shortage , according to the bureau .
vietnam prepares second phase testing of covid-19 vaccine .
a potential covid-19 vaccine produced in vietnam will be tested on 30 mice in order to determine its most effective dose .
the second phase of testing will be carried out early june , said dr. do tuan dat , head of the hanoi-based vabiotech company , which produces vaccines .
during the first testing phase , 50 mice in the lab remained healthy two weeks after they were injected with the vaccine on april 26 .
on may 14 , researchers sent the mice 's blood samples to the national institute of hygiene and epidemiology for first evaluation .
the vaccine has been developed by collaborating scientists of vabiotech and the u.k. 's bristol university .
dat said that since the end of january when the covid-19 pandemic broke out in vietnam , vabiotech researchers have been working with scientists at the bristol university to produce a vaccine for the disease .
if the tests prove successful on mice , the research team will seek funding from international agencies to take their work further .
the company estimates it will take at least 12-18 months to develop a covid-19 vaccine that can work safely on humans .
a vaccine is generally considered the most effective way to fight a viral disease .
there is currently no approved vaccine or medication for the covid-19 , which has infected more than five million people with reported deaths rising above 329,000 .
around 150 covid-19 vaccine development projects are being carried out worldwide .
eight vaccines have begun human testing .
on monday , moderna , the massachusetts biotechnology company , announced promising early results from its first human safety tests on eight volunteers .
with no new case confirmed , wednesday marked day 34 without a new coronavirus infection caused by community transmission in vietnam .
the nation 's covid-19 tally now stands at 324 .
doctors to transfer british pilot to chợ rẫy hospital before lung transplant .
the country 's 91st covid-19 patient , a british pilot , will be transferred to the intensive care centre in hcm city 's chợ rẫy hospital to have a lung transplant when the patient is healthy enough for the procedure .
the hospital has improved its intensive care centre to ensure the highest safety before receiving the patient for further treatment .
this was the conclusion made at a telemedicine conference of leading doctors in the country on tuesday to find optimal ways to save the patient .
lương ngọc khuê , head of the health ministry 's department of medical examination and treatment , said the association of young vietnamese entrepreneurs and many donors were willing to cover all medical expenses of treatment and lung transplant for the patient .
also at the meeting , the doctors said the second computed tomography ( ct ) scan of the critically-ill british pilot – the 91st patient – showed positive improvements .
about 20 to 30 percent of his lungs have recovered .
the patient still has to depend completely on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) .
without the support , he will die .
if his lungs do not recover , the only way to save him is a lung transplant , nguyễn văn vĩnh châu , director of hcm city 's hospital for tropical diseases said .
the patient has been on ecmo for 44 days .
the patient has undergone two ct scans , one on monday and another on may 13 .
the first ct scan images on may 13 showed severe solidification and fibrosis of the lungs , making it difficult for oxygen to get into the patient 's blood .
only 10 percent of his lungs were working .
the 43-year-old male patient remains the most difficult covid-19 case in viet nam , with a complicated disease progression since he was hospitalised on march 18 at hcm city hospital for tropical diseases .
viet nam calls for special attention to covid-19 response in syria .
viet nam has called for special attention to responding to the covid-19 epidemic which is exacerbating the humanitarian crisis in syria , at a regular monthly meeting of the un security council .
addressing the may 19 video meeting on the humanitarian situation in syria , deputy permanent representative of viet nam to the un - ambassador phạm hải anh said humanitarian access must be maintained in all areas in syria , and a favourable security environment be ensured for humanitarian activities .
he appealed to the international community to support syria in this difficult time , including ensuring the supply of food and medical supplies necessary for covid-19 prevention and control .
in his report , under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief coordinator mark lowcock said the economic and humanitarian crisis in syria is facing a great challenge by the risk of covid-19 outbreak .
though the country has so far reported only 64 cases , the local disease prevention capacity is poor .
besides the impact of social distancing measures , the syrian people are also facing rising inflation , with the prices of essential goods having doubled from one year ago .
lowcock called on the international community to increase support to syria in all possible forms .
the humanitarian crisis in syria is the consequence of prolonged instability and conflicts during the past decade .
it is estimated that more than 11 million people in syria need humanitarian assistance .
uniqlo to open fourth store in vietnam .
japanese global apparel retailer uniqlo has announced that it will open its newest store in vietnam on june 5 .
located on the first floor of vincom center landmark 81 in hcmc 's binh thanh district , the store covers a total retail space of some 2,000 square meters , which is equivalent to that of its recently launched facility in the city 's district 7 .
the complete lifewear lineup from the 2020 spring or summer collection will be available in-store from the opening day , along with the exclusive launch of the limited edition uniqlo x hana tajima 2020 spring or summer collection .
after six months in the local market , with the first store launched on december 6 , 2019 , the japanese apparel retailer has set up four stores in vietnam despite challenges caused by the coronavirus pandemic .
of these , three stores have been opened in hcmc and one store is in the capital city of hanoi .
bà rịa-vũng tàu to build high-tech agricultural zone .
the southern coastal province of bà rịa-vũng tàu plans to set up a 1,073ha high-tech agricultural zone in the next five years .
it will come up in châu đức district .
it will improve productivity and quality of agricultural products , enhancing their competitiveness and enable the creation of new-style rural areas besides creating jobs and improving incomes for local people .
the project is estimated to cost around vnđ1.32 trillion ( us $ 56.4 million ) , with the money coming entirely from private investors .
public funds would be used for building infrastructure outside the zone such as roads , water and power supply systems and drainage .
the zone will have three separate areas for farming , processing and related services .
by 2025 it is expected to generate annual revenues of vnđ712 million ( $ 30,500 ) per hectare and profits of vnđ411 million ( $ 17,600 ) .
the province seeks to mechanise and modernise its agriculture by establishing high-tech agricultural firms , piloting efficient models of hi-tech use in farming and processing and building value chains from production and processing to consumption .
the proposed zone will have 114ha under flowers and vegetables , nearly 15ha under mushrooms , 622ha under fruits , and 153ha under perennial cash crops such as pepper and cacao .
a 2.75ha area will be earmarked for processing facilities and services .
lê tuấn quốc , deputy chairman of the provincial people 's committee , has instructed the project 's consultants to consider construction of reservoirs to store water from the rây river to irrigate the zone .
the provincial department of agriculture and rural development will work with the consultants unit to complete the feasibility report and submit it to the provincial authorities for approval .
sixty one high-tech agricultural facilities are operating successfully in the province .
country to be hit with severe hot weather .
hot weather will hit northern viet nam from wednesday , said the national centre for hydro-meteorological forecasting .
temperatures will hit 34-37 degrees celsius and even more than 38 degrees celsius in some places .
the central region will have temperatures of 39 degree celsius , and 40-41 degree celsius in mountainous areas .
the hot weather is forecast to last until the end of the week .
from wednesday , hà nội will have high temperatures at about 35-38 celsius degree .
on wednesday , the ultraviolet in hà nội , đà nẵng city and hcm city is forecast to reach high level , seriously affecting people 's health .
there is a high risk of forest fires in central areas due to the hot weather .
southern areas will also have high temperatures of about 34-37 celsius degree .
thu thiem 2 bridge technical opening expected by end-2020 .
the technical opening of thu thiem 2 bridge , which spans the saigon river and connects hcmc 's district 1 with thu thiem peninsula in district 2 , are scheduled for the end of this year .
the vnd 3.082 trillion project was funded by dai quang minh corporation under the build-transfer format .
the cable-stayed bridge has six lanes and a total length of 1,465 meters , with the main section stretching 885.7 meters .
it is designed to have a main support tower 113 meters high that arches toward thu thiem and will act as a gateway to the thu thiem new urban area .
according to the investor , the construction of the bridge 's main section is being expedited .
also , the asphalt concrete paving for the access roads at both ends of the bridge has been completed .
last month , the hcmc transport department announced adjustments to regulate traffic flow on ton duc thang street to assist with the bridge 's construction between april 25 and july 20 .
foreigners stranded in vietnam can stay until june 30 .
foreigners who entered vietnam under visa waiver programs , tourist visas or e-visas from march 1 and are unable to leave vietnam due to covid-19 will have their temporary residence permits automatically extended until june 30 .
these foreign nationals can exit vietnam during this period without having to apply to extend their temporary residence , according to an announcement released yesterday by the vietnam immigration department , under the ministry of public security .
those who entered vietnam before march 1 will also be considered for this extension if they can prove their inability to leave vietnam due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic and if they can acquire certification from their diplomatic representative bodies in vietnam through an official diplomatic note with a vietnamese translation .
also , they can present notices from vietnamese authorities confirming that they have been placed in quarantine or received treatment for covid-19 or were stranded here for other reasons beyond their control .
further , they have to present this evidence on leaving vietnam , stated the immigration department .
foreign citizens , during the authorized period of extended stay , have to declare their temporary residence and health status , as required by vietnamese authorities .
vietnamese transgender man gives birth to a baby girl .
a well-known transgender couple – minh khang and minh anh – welcomed their first baby on may 16 , making the husband minh khang the first transgender man in viet nam to get pregnant and give birth to a baby .
the baby girl was born at a beauty salon in hcm city , weighing 2.3kg and in good health , minh anh announced on her social media account .
the husband minh khang , 24 , was a female at birth , used to be đào thị kiều trang , of cần thơ province .
his wife minh anh , 21 , was a male at birth named đặng khắc nguyên , of bến tre province .
they got married in 2017 after they met at a transgender beauty contest .
last year , the couple planned to have a baby after reading about a foreign man who got pregnant .
prior to the decision , khang had been receiving male hormone injections for two and a half years and his wife had received female hormones for a few months .
they also underwent surgeries , using anaesthetics and antibiotics , which made them worried about the possibility of pregnancy and maintaining a healthy pregnancy .
yearning to have a baby , khang decided to stop hormone therapy to restart menstruation .
he followed obstetricians ' advice on a well-balanced pre-pregnancy diet in hopes of getting pregnant .
khang got pregnant three months after stopping the hormone therapy .
on march 8 , the couple minh anh and minh khang were guests of the tv show come out – bước ra ánh sáng ( come out to the light ) , calling on public and healthcare centres to support couples like them to realise the dream of being parents .
trial on the death of a school boy student of the gateway international school in hanoi adjourns .
a hà nội court has decided to adjourn an appeal hearing regarding the death of a first-grader in a school bus due to the absence of some key participants .
the hà nội people 's court on monday opened the hearing of three people accused of involuntary manslaughter in the death of lê hoàng long , a student of the gateway international school .
due to the absence of the student 's parents , some witnesses , and other participants that were summoned by the court , the court panel decided to postpone the appeal trial .
earlier , two lawyers for nguyễn bích quy , the school monitor bus , filed a request for the trial to be canceled and quy also proposed to postpone the trial so that lawyers would be involved .
representatives of the hà nội people 's procuracy said that lawyers and witnesses were very important in the case .
therefore , to ensure the objectivity and interests of the parties , the procuracy requests the panel to postpone the trial .
the time for reopening this trial will be announced by the court later .
at the first instance court held in january this year , quy and doãn quý phiến , the bus driver , were sentenced to 15 months in jail on charges of involuntary manslaughter .
nguyễn thị thủy , long 's teacher , got a one-year jail sentence on a charge of lacking responsibility causing serious consequences .
the indictment stated that negligence of the three defendants was to blame for the boy 's death .
according to the indictment , phiến drove the 16-seat school bus to pick up quy at 6am on august 6 .
the two then went to pick up 13 students for school , including long – the victim .
the six-year-old boy was picked up at trung yên plaza building .
at 7.22am on the same day , the bus arrived at the gateway international school in cầu giấy district .
phiến remained on the bus while quy helped students get off .
however , at that time , there were two students , who were twins , crying , so quy had to guide both children off the bus .
all students were led off the bus , however long remained on board as he was sleeping .
quy closed the doors without checking for any other students .
after the door was closed , phiến drove and parked the bus at the dormitory of the nearby academy of journalism and communication .
he left the bus and closed the door without checking for any students on board .
after taking the students to school , quy went to the office to sign off on her job for the morning .
at 3.30pm , phiến returned to the parking lot and drove the bus back to school .
when quy opened the doors of the bus to let students on , quy found the young boy unconscious on the floor behind the driver 's seat .
medical staff from the school took the boy to hospital , but doctors were unable to revive him .
at 4pm on the same day , the boy 's family received news that their child had not been present in class .
later , the family was informed the child had been found inside the school bus and he had died .
ministry sounds alarm as chinese own rights to prime land lots in danang .
chinese-invested firms own the rights to a large number of land lots that are of significant importance to the economy and national defense in the central city of danang , according to the ministry of national defense .
as of the end of 2019 , some 149 enterprises with chinese involvement were active in 22 border cities and provinces in vietnam .
in danang , there were 135 coastal land lots held by chinese-invested firms between 2011 and 2015 .
these land lots are situated in prime locations , such as the city 's coastal urban area .
near nuoc man airport .
along the hoang sa and vo nguyen giap streets in khue my ward , ngu hanh son district .
and urban areas in phuoc my and tho quang wards , son tra district .
as vietnam does not permit foreigners to make land-use transfer transactions , many chinese nationals have funded vietnamese people to have them purchase land lots in danang .
between 2011 and 2015 , chinese and taiwanese nationals provided money to eight vietnamese people to buy 84 land lots covering some 20,000 square meters in total in the city .
moreover , seven chinese-invested firms own several coastal land lots and have leased land for 50 years .
chinese people have also founded chinese-vietnamese joint ventures , with chinese capital contributions initially below those of the vietnamese .
however , the chinese investors gradually increased their investment to take over the firms as well as their land .
according to the ministry of national defense , the prime minister has asked the relevant ministries , departments and the danang authorities to handle individuals and organizations involved in these cases .
the ministry stated that the total capital of 149 chinese-invested firms operating in vietnam 's border areas is nearly us $ 31 billion .
they are active in various fields including hospitality , catering services , entertainment , clothing , aquatic products , footwear , packaging , toys and electronic components .
all of them were founded before december 2018 and employ nearly 4,240 chinese workers .
most of them comply with vietnamese laws , but some have infringed on the law , including employing chinese workers without registration , producing drugs , polluting the environment and evading taxes .
the ministry suggested that the government assign ministries , departments and local authorities to inspect all chinese-invested firms and projects in border areas , tighten control over chinese nationals ' activities and amend the law to prevent chinese nationals from taking advantage of loopholes .
grandmaster le quang liem shares fourth place at online fide steinitz memorial .
the international chess federation online steinitz memorial concluded with vietnamese grandmaster le quang liem sharing fourth place with two other players .
liem scored nine points , the same as shakhriyar mamedyarov of azerbaijan and jeffery xiong of the us .
grandmaster magnus carlsen of norway , the reigning world champion , finished first with 12 points followed by russia 's daniil dubov and peter svidler with 10 and 9.5 .
another russian , alexander grischuk , was last with 7 .
on the final day , liem collected 2.5 points from one win , three draws and two losses .
he had earlier lost both the double round-robins to carlsen and mamedyarov but beat four others .
the three-day event , held live on chess.com from may 15 to 17 and featuring 10 players , had total prize money of €30,000 ( nearly $ 33,000 ) .
two flight attendants and two overseas students test positive for covid-19 .
the ministry of health has just reported four more coronavirus patients , including two vietnam airlines flight attendants and two students flying home from the united states , taking the country 's total to 324 tonight , may 18 .
the 321st and 322nd patients are male flight attendants on flight vn0062 departing from russia to vietnam through van don airport in quang ninh province on may 13 .
the 44-year-old and 39-year-old men and other crew members on the flight flew to hanoi city without any passenger onboard on the same day .
after that flight vn7485 carried the crew members and no passengers on board landed in hcmc .
they were put under quarantine at a vietnam airlines ' lodging facility on hong ha street in tan binh district after arriving .
the two patients were isolated in the same room and tested positive for the virus on may 17 and 18 , respectively .
they are being treated at hcmc-based cu chi field hospital .
the other two patients , tagged as the 323rd and 324th , returned to vietnam from the united states on flight vn001 through hanoi-based noi bai international airport on may 16 .
the 19-year-old female student and 18-year-old male one and other passengers on board were put under quarantine after their arrival .
the two students ' positive test results came out on may 17 and they are receiving treatment at the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district , hanoi city .
curdled oil found on central beach .
over one kilometer of a beach in the central province of quang ngai was found covered with curdled oil said to have been washed ashore .
local residents in duc thang commune , mo duc district found the phenomenon late on may 14 and reported it to the local authority .
nguyen huu toi , a local man aged 56 , discovered the curdled oil when he was going to catch clams .
some of the oil curdled has the smell of asphalt , he said .
the oil may pollute the beach environment and affect the reproduction of sea creatures as well as the locals ' fishing business , local fishermen voiced their concern .
the local authority inspected the scene today , may 15 , saying that the black solid waste stretches over one kilometer and is five meters wide .
le van huong , chief of the commune 's police unit , said the oil would be collected within the day to avoid affecting the coastal line .
some eight years ago , oil spill had reportedly occurred on this beach .
nearly 300 vietnamese return home from thailand .
nearly 300 vietnamese citizens been repatriated from thailand may 18 , because of the development of the coronavirus pandemic in the neighboring country .
the repatriation flight was operated with the cooperation of vietnamese and thai authorities and national flag carrier vietnam airlines .
the passengers , including minor students , elderly people and those under extraordinary circumstances , underwent heath checks and were placed in quarantine on arrival at van don international airport in the northern province of quang ninh .
the carrier adopted covid-19 infection prevention and control measures as required when operating the flight .
earlier , the vietnamese embassy in thailand provided support to vietnamese nationals , helping them complete essential procedures to fly home .
following the prime minister 's directives , vietnamese agencies at home and the representative bodies overseas will operate further repatriation flights based on the disease 's development and the local quarantine capacity .
hcmc faces extreme risk of flooding by 2050 .
bloomberg on may 17 cited a report by the mckinsey global institute claiming that the chance of flood disasters in hcmc could increase by five to 10 times by 2050 given the rapid infrastructure expansion in the city driven by economic growth .
this would result in economic and infrastructural damage , leading to billions of dollars in losses .
the analysis is based on hydrological simulations , land-use maps , infrastructure databases and damage curves .
while the city can cope with flood risks that could affect 23 percent of its landscape , further urbanization will raise the potential for land subsidence and an increase in sea levels .
this could cause some us $ 8.4 billion worth of real-estate damage from flooding by 2050 , six times the current estimated impact .
mckinsey noted that the city still has time to adapt to avoid these risks by putting better plans in place , including relocating homes and infrastructure assets away from flood-prone areas .
investments and fundraising are also needed to reduce exposure for roads and other critical utilities , according to the report .
vietnam is forecast to become the 20th largest economy in the world by 2050 , with an annual economic growth rate of 5.1 percent according to estimates by pricewaterhousecoopers .
vietnam posts second fastest growth of rich population .
vietnam ranks second among the world 's top wealth markets in terms of very high net worth individuals over the past decade .
the country 's average annual growth rate of those with a net worth between $ 5-30 million , categorized as very high net worth ( vhnw ) population , reached 13.9 percent during the 2010-2019 period , says wealth-x .
this growth rate is only lower than bangladesh at 14.3 percent , according to a recent wealth-x report .
it attributes vietnam 's wealth performance to robust economic growth supported by a young and expanding workforce and deepening integration in regional manufacturing supply chains .
vietnam has a workforce of over 57 million , 70 percent of which belong to the y ( commonly called millennials , born between 1976 and 1995 ) and z generations ( born after 1995 ) , according to official statistics .
last year , the vietnamese economy expanded at 7.02 percent , the second highest in the last decade after a record 7.08 percent in 2018 .
the rapid urbanization and an ongoing shift from low-productivity agriculture towards manufacturing and services in asian economies , including vietnam , have contributed to the growth of wealthy individuals , the report says .
china ranked third among the top 10 fastest-growing wealth markets at 13.5 percent , followed by kenya ( 13.1 percent ) and the philippines ( 11.9 percent ) .
the rest of the top 10 comprised thailand ( 10.6 percent ) , new zealand ( 8.7 percent ) , the us ( 8.2 percent ) , pakistan ( 7.5 percent ) and ireland ( 7.1 percent ) .
vietnam had 25,727 millionaires last year , up 12 percent from a year ago .
of these , 458 had a net worth of above $ 30 million , up 7 percent from a year ago , according to a report released earlier this year by global property consultant knight frank .
the hosts were originally due to be chosen at a fifa council meeting in addis ababa in june but that was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic .
fifa remains committed to implementing the most comprehensive , objective , and transparent bidding process in the history of the fifa women 's world cup , said fifa general secretary fatma samoura .
fifa said its evaluation report on the four bids will be published in early june .
south korea and south africa dropped out of the race in december .
the 2023 tournament will feature 32 teams for the first time , up from 24 in france in 2019 .
vietnam gold prices rise to nine-year high .
on monday morning the country 's largest jewelry company , doji , sold its sjc gold at vnd 49.05 million ( $ 2,103 ) , up 0.8 percent from the weekend .
saigon jewelry company ltd sold at vnd 49.15 ( $ 2,107 ) , also up 0.8 percent .
global gold prices increased by 0.9 percent to $ 1,755 per ounce on monday morning , the highest since october 2012 .
analysts said the bleak economic figures of the us because of the coronavirus outbreak and worries regarding its souring relations with china contributed to the rise as investors sought a safe haven .
vietnam 's gold bar and coin demand in the first quarter fell 8 percent year-on-year to 12.3 tonnes , according to the world gold council .
a newborn weighing 6.1 kilograms .
a 40-year-old woman in southern vietnam has given birth to a baby girl weighing 6.1 kilograms ( 13.45 pounds ) , twice the average .
the mother was admitted to the provincial children 's hospital friday to deliver her seventh child .
she was 40 weeks pregnant and weighed 110 kilos .
as the baby was big , doctors decided to do a c-section , although all her previous children had been vaginal deliveries , each born between 3.6 to 4.8 kilos .
the baby born friday is the heaviest delivered to date at the soc trang hospital .
normally , a baby born at full term weighs 2.5-4 kilos on average , said nguyen thi my ha , director of the hospital .
despite being born heavy , the baby girl 's health indices were all normal , doctors said .
according to health experts , babies born abnormally heavy could face several problems including respiratory depression and hypoglycemia .
the heaviest baby delivered so far in vietnam is a boy weighing 7.1 kilos in the northern province of vinh phuc in 2017 .
the second heaviest one is a baby girl in the central highlands province of gia lai , born in 2008 weighing almost seven kilos .
two other babies delivered in da nang and quang nam province in central vietnam weighed 6.5 kilos at birth .
seriously ill pilot shows signs of improvement .
the 43-year-old is considered viet nam 's most seriously ill patient and works for national flag carrier vietnam airlines .
he has tested negative for covid 19 five times and doctors are preparing him to be transferred to chợ rẫy hospital in hcm city for a lung transplant .
the treatment sub-committee , which is under the national steering committee for covid-19 prevention and control , said that so far 260 patients have recovered from the disease , making up 82 percent of the total number of people to contract the disease in viet nam .
a total of 58 patients are currently being treated for coronavirus at hospitals around the country .
most of them are in stable condition .
in another development , a delegation from the ministry of health ( moh ) chaired by associate professor lương ngọc khuê , director of the medical services administration , on saturday worked with medical staff at the thái bình province general hospital where 25 covid-19 patients are being treated .
experts from the moh asked the hospital to do all they can to help the patients , give them special supervision , and regularly contact the moh to discuss their conditions .
the most important work is preventing the disease from spreading to medical workers and other patients .
earlier on saturday morning , the treatment sub-committee assigned a task force team from the hà nội-based bạch mai hospital to give professional support to the thái bình province hospital .
miss viet nam 2020 contest launched .
the national miss viet nam 2020 competition was launched by tiền phong newspaper this week .
young women aged 18 to 26 who are at least 1.65m tall are encouraged to join the event .
the organiser will select 30 candidates who have had no cosmetic surgery for the semifinal rounds , scheduled to be held late this year .
the contestants will compete in the categories of traditional costumes , swimsuits , question-and-answer sessions and evening wear .
they will also take part in two additional competitions highlighting their talent and charity work .
the winner will receive vnđ500 million ( us $ 25,000 ) in cash and gifts worth several hundred million đồng , while the runner-ups will take home vnđ300 million ( $ 15,000 ) and vnđ250 million ( $ 12,000 ) .
the organizer will also present awards for miss charming face , miss sports , miss áo dài ( vietnamese dress ) , and miss charity .
the winners will represent viet nam in global beauty competitions such as miss universe , miss world and miss earth .
miss viet nam 2018 tran tieu vi will support contestants during the event .
miss viet nam 2020 will be broadcast live on viet nam television .
miss viet nam began in 1988 and is organised every two years .
the contest has encouraged many young women to demonstrate their talent in their careers as well as charity and social activities .
two more fresh cases of covid-19 reported .
two vietnamese citizens repatriated from russia have been confirmed as new covid-19 patients in vietnam , raising the country 's total infections to 320 , the health ministry said in a statement this evening .
the two flew home on vietnam airlines flight vn0062 that landed at van don international airport in the northern province of quang ninh on may 13 and placed under quarantine on arrival .
the 319th patient is a 26-year-old resident of haiphong city .
he is receiving treatment at the national hospital for tropical diseases in hanoi .
the 320th patient is being treated at thai binh general hospital .
this 29-year-old man resides in the northern province of nam dinh .
state should encourage casino investment to attract foreign tourists .
association .
the viet nam association of foreign investment enterprises ( vafie ) has proposed the government to encourage the development of casino businesses and gambling activities in hotels and resorts to attract more foreign tourists .
the association said at present , casino and gambling activities are present in 43 hotels and resorts .
the domestic gaming and casino market has strongly developed since a full legal framework was put in place .
however , the economic efficiency of the gaming industry and casino business has not been commensurate with their potential because those are sensitive fields and there is not yet a consensus view among state agencies in attracting foreign investment to this field .
besides that , the domestic legal system for this field has not yet approached international practices , according to the association .
one more important thing is that the ministry of finance does not have enough human resources for managing gambling and casino businesses , so evaluation and issuance of business registration certificates for businesses in those fields have been implemented slowly .
therefore , the association said viet nam should learn in developing the gambling activities as well as casino businesses from other countries , especially australia and singapore , to complete the state management of developing these fields .
specifically , the state needs to amend and complete policies and laws relating to gambling activities and casino businesses according to international practices to ensure stability and transparency for this entertainment market .
that would encourage investment from vietnamese and foreign organisations and individuals to this market as well as attract more international tourists .
for the state management measures , according to vafie , the nation could establish a national council on the management of gambling activities and casino business like singapore or allow local authorities to manage those activities like australia .
the association has recommended viet nam set up a national council on the management of gambling activities and casino businesses like singapore to directly solve problems relating to those fields .
the council is a governmental agency headed by a deputy prime minister .
it also includes representatives from ministries , sectors and associations relating to this field as well as legal , psychological and sociological experts .
this council will give proposals to the government on policies and solutions of managing gambling activities and casino business , including appraisal and license of investment and business projects , as well as monitoring those projects and solving problems .
that would minimise negative impacts on society and the economy .
four men jailed for wildlife trafficking .
a court in ca mau province on thursday sentenced four men belonging to a wildlife trafficking gang to two to 13 years in jail .
tran quy , director of hai dang company , which registered as a tourism agency , the kingpin of the ring , got 13 years .
nguyen hai nam was sentenced to 12 years and le viet linh to 10 years while ngo vu lam got two years .
in january 2018 , border troops found dang 's company transporting 113 pangolins and more than 300 kg of pangolin scales by boat in ca mau , and it failed to furnish legal documents for them .
local authorities began an investigation into the company 's wildlife breeding activities , and found that the animals were raised for trafficking .
quy helped transport wildlife from abroad into vietnam by sea before selling them for local consumption .
trafficking of pangolins is not uncommon in vietnam , where they are legally protected and classified as endangered .
the animals are sought after in the country and neighboring nations for their meat and the alleged medicinal properties of their scales .
in 2019 , vietnam seized 63.7 tonnes of pangolin scales , the largest volume in the world , according to the netherlands-based wildlife justice commission .
it is illegal to hunt , kill , possess , capture , transport , or trade protected animals in vietnam , and they carry penalties of up to 15 years in prison and fines up to vnd 15 billion ( $ 645,000 ) .
vietnam reports four new covid-19 cases .
the ministry of health has announced four more coronavirus patients , who had come back to vietnam from abroad , taking the country 's total number of confirmed cases to 318 tonight , may 16 .
the four had been put under quarantine after their arrival , proving there was no risk of community spread .
the 315th patient , a 39-year-old man , illegally traveled to vietnam from cambodia on may 2 and visited his aunt in tay ninh province 's tan chau district .
at his aunt 's request , the man then showed up at a police station and was sent to a centralized center on may 3 .
on may 5 , he tested negative for the coronavirus , but his second test result came back positive on may 15 .
the patient is being treated at tay ninh general hospital , while 17 people , who had earlier come into close contact with the 315th case , are under quarantine in the province .
another patient , confirmed as the 316th , flew back to vietnam from the philippines through can tho international airport on may 14 .
the 19-year-old man tested positive for the virus on may 15 .
the resident of danang city is receiving treatment at sa dec general hospital in the mekong delta province of dong thap .
the remaining two patients , tagged as the 317th and 318th , onboard flight vn0062 departing from russia arrived at van don international airport in quang ninh province on may 13 .
the 29-year-old man and the 41-year-old woman tested positive for covid-19 on may 16 .
the residents of khanh hoa and thanh hoa provinces are being treated at thai binh general hospital .
social support center manager jailed for molesting underage girls .
a saigon social support center manager will spend four and a half years in jail for molesting underage girls during his night shifts .
nguyen tien dung , 49 , was found guilty of molestation of a person under 16 by a court in hcmc 's binh thanh district .
the court found him guilty of repeatedly molesting four underage girls and ordered him to pay each victim vnd 20 million ( $ 857 ) in compensation .
dung was a manager of the center 's document management division at the hcmc social support center run by the municipal department of labor , war invalids and social affairs .
he admitted his guilt at court friday .
according to the indictment , four girls 14 to 16 years old were admitted to the center in room c2 ( for girls only ) along with many others on may 29 , 2019 .
since dung knew they were addicted to cigarettes , he used this to satisfy his lust .
social support center manager jailed for molesting underage girls .
a saigon social support center manager will spend four and a half years in jail for molesting underage girls during his night shifts .
nguyen tien dung , 49 , was found guilty of molestation of a person under 16 by a court in hcmc 's binh thanh district .
the court found him guilty of repeatedly molesting four underage girls and ordered him to pay each victim vnd 20 million ( $ 857 ) in compensation .
dung was a manager of the center 's document management division at the hcmc social support center run by the municipal department of labor , war invalids and social affairs .
he admitted his guilt at court friday .
according to the indictment , four girls 14 to 16 years old were admitted to the center in room c2 ( for girls only ) along with many others on may 29 , 2019 .
since dung knew they were addicted to cigarettes , he used this to satisfy his lust .
vietnam mounts all-out effort to save the most critically ill covid-19 patient , a british pilot .
vietnam has mounted an all-out effort to save the life of its most critically ill novel coronavirus patient , a british pilot who works for vietnam airlines , the national carrier .
through aggressive testing and a mass , centralised quarantine programme , the southeast asian country has kept its tally of coronavirus cases to just 288 and has reported no deaths .
the 43-year-old man , identified only as patient 91 , who caught the coronavirus at a bar in the southern business hub of ho chi minh city in mid-march .
more than 4,000 people connected to the cluster were tested , with 18 of them found to be infected with the coronavirus .
while most have recovered , the british pilot is on life support and his condition has deteriorated significantly .
on tuesday , the health ministry held a meeting with experts from top hospitals and decided that the only way to save the man 's life was with a lung transplant .
his case has garnered national spotlight in vietnam , where the government has won broad support for its campaign to contain the coronavirus .
on thursday , state media said 10 people , including a 70-year-old military veteran , had volunteered themselves as lung donors , but had been turned down by state doctors .
we are touched by their good intentions , but current regulations do n't allow us to transplant lungs donated by most living people , a representative of the vietnam national coordinating centre for human organ transplantation ( vnhot ) told the tuoi tre newspaper .
the patient has just 10 percent of his lung capacity left and has been on life support for more than 30 days , tuoi tre said .
deputy health minister nguyen truong son told media last month that vietnam had imported specialist medicine from overseas to treat blood clots in the patient , but to no avail .
vietnam has spent more than 5 billion dong ( $ 200,000 ) trying to save him , the vietnam news agency ( vna ) reported .
in march , chinese state media said it had successfully carried out a double lung transplant on a coronavirus patient , a procedure it hailed as a significant method of treating the disease 's most stricken victims .
vietnam is hoping to capitalise on its success fighting the coronavirus by positioning itself as a safe place to do business as international manufacturers look to diversify their supply chains away from china .
vietnam 's coronavirus cases rise to 312 cases .
vietnam reported 24 new coronavirus cases today , may 15 , all of whom are vietnamese returning from russia , taking the country 's total number of confirmed cases to 312 , according to the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control .
one of the patients is female and 23 others are male , aged between 24 and 48 .
they returned to quang ninh province on vietnam airlines flight vn0062 on may 13 , together with 321 other passengers .
all of them and crew members were sent to quarantine centers in thai binh , quang ninh and hai duong provinces after their arrival .
the 23 new patients were taken to thai binh general hospital for treatment while the remaining one case was hospitalized at quang ninh hospital no 2 , the local media reported .
vung tau airport to be rebuilt into urban area .
after being relocated to go gang island , the existing vung tau airport in the city center will be developed into an urban area .
the standing board of the party committee of ba ria-vung tau province has met with representatives of a consortium comprising van phu-invest investment jsc and vci investment jsc , and of consulting firms to discuss the development of hai dang new urban area and another residential area at the existing airport in vung tau city .
the provincial government stated that the consortium had earlier written to the province seeking approval to study and invest in go gang airport in long son commune .
besides this , the two firms proposed developing the two residential areas .
as for the vung tau airport , which covers some 172 hectares of land , the consortium proposed building a new urban area comprising a 35-hectare compact city , a 46-hectare central park , a 24-hectare transit and trading service complex , a 20-hectare financial and technology center and a 25-hectare complex .
the standing board praised the idea , calling on the consortium to carefully assess the density of the population , the number of vehicles and the traffic flow at the projected area to work out a solution for traffic connections and the construction of parking lots .
apart from this , the consortium should reconsider the feasibility of constructing a financial center , the standing board said , suggesting gathering branches of banks in the province at the center .
many urban traffic experts threw their support behind the relocation of vung tau airport to go gang island , pointing out that moving the airport from the city center would contribute to the establishment of new urban areas in both parts of vung tau .
three get death for drug trafficking .
the ha tinh people 's court sentenced 29-year-old hoang ngoc tan to death after he was caught carrying six packs of heroin from huong son district in the province to ho chi minh city .
the drug was found in his motorbike trunk on october 7 last year by border guards .
tan told the court that in september , he had been asked by a stranger on a social network to buy heroin in laos and transport it to hcmc .
tan was promised vnd 70 million ( $ 3,000 ) for the job .
the heroin was brought into vietnam via the laos border .
in nghe an , local 45-year-old hoang nghia van and 37-year-old cho mua from bolikhamsai province in laos were also sentenced to death for trafficking drugs .
mua ba va , 32 , of the province 's ky son district , was sentenced to life for the same crime .
in march 2019 , van had met a woman named nguyen thi ly in hcmc .
ly asked van to buy drugs when he returned to nghe an and promised to pay him vnd 17 million if he succeeded .
a month later , van returned to nghe an and stayed there until may 9 .
then he went to bolikhamsai in laos to marry a woman and he met cho mua , a relative of his wife .
cho mua agreed to purchase drugs for van .
after the wedding , van returned to vietnam and informed ly that he has found a source .
ly said she would send van vnd 2 billion to buy 15 kilos of ketamine .
on may 27 , van received the money from ly and gave it to cho mua , who used it to purchase the ketamine from a laotian .
mua hired va to transport the drugs for $ 2,000 .
after receiving the drugs in the forest , mua rode a motorbike carrying va , who was holding the packages in the back .
the two were caught in huong son district , ha tinh province .
van was arrested as he waited for mua to deliver the ketamine to him .
police have not been able to find and verify the identity of nguyen thi ly .
vietnam is a key trafficking hub for drugs from the golden triangle , an intersection of laos , thailand and myanmar and the world 's second largest drug producing area after the golden crescent in south asia .
vietnam has some of the harshest punishments for drug trafficking , awarding death to those convicted of possessing or smuggling over 600 grams of heroin or more than 2.5 kg of methamphetamine and to those producing or selling 100 grams of heroin or 300 grams of other illegal narcotics .
however this does not seem to have had a deterrent effect , with increasing drug trafficking cases coming to light in recent years .
su ngoc khuong , senior director of real estate service firm savills vietnam , said vietnam 's political stability and fast economic growth are positive factors for drawing foreign investment .
a recent report by real estate service firm jones lang lasalle ( jll ) shows that vietnam 's industrial land prices rose by up to 12 percent year-on-year in the first quarter despite pandemic impacts .
industrial park developers remain confident that demand for land will continue to grow and therefore land prices are expected to increase in line with the long-term potential of vietnam 's industrial segment , said stephen wyatt , country head of jll vietnam .
most industrial land developers have posted strong numbers in the first quarter despite the pandemic .
vnd irect analysts said that vietnam was ready to become an alternative manufacturing hub to china , adding that the southern province of ba ria-vung tau and the northern provinces of bac giang and hai duong could become new industrial hotspots thanks to improved infrastructure .
prolonged heatwave expected .
a heatwave affecting many parts of vietnam is expected to continue , with temperatures reaching as high as 35-38 degrees celsius .
the national center for hydro-meteorological forecasting ( nchmf ) forecast that hot weather will hit northern vietnam between may 15 and 16 with a maximum temperature of 36 degrees celsius .
the heatwave is also expected to envelop the northern mountainous areas and the central region , where high temperatures could reach some 35-38 degrees celsius , or even higher in some places .
the temperature is predicted to stay above 35 degrees celsius from 11 a.m to 4 p.m .
the hot weather sweeping central localities will likely last until may 21 , stated nchmf .
in the central highlands and southern regions , high temperatures of 35-37 degrees celcius are expected today , may 15 .
the widespread heatwave may end in these regions around may 16 .
similarly , the capital city of hanoi will endure the scorching heat until may 17 .
the impact of hot temperatures coupled with low humidity and the southwest monsoon will pose a high risk of fire and explosions in residential areas due to a rising demand for power , as well as forest fires in the central provinces and northern mountainous region .
besides this , hot weather can lead to many health problems such as dehydration , heat exhaustion and heat stroke due to prolonged exposure to high temperatures .
israeli company uncovers cyberattack on vietnam , neighbors by china-linked group​ .
a ransomware attack targeting government systems in vietnam and several neighboring countries has been discovered by an israeli cybersecurity firm .
check point research said in a report last thursday the cyber espionage operation has been going on under the radar for years and is connected to naikon advanced persistent threat ( apt ) group , which cybersecurity firms like kaspersky , threatconnect and defense group exposed in 2015 as having links to china .
the group 's goal is to gather geo-political intelligence from government entities in vietnam , australia , indonesia , thailand , myanmar , brunei , and the philippines .
its specific targets are ministries of foreign affairs and science and technology besides government-owned companies .
for instance , the group disguised one of its attacks as an email sent from a government embassy in asia pacific to the australian government .
inside the malicious email was a file called the indians way.doc containing the backdoor trojan , aria-body .
check point said the trojan can not only locate and collect specific documents from infected computers and networks in government departments , but also extract data from removable drives , take screenshots and log keys , and of course harvest the stolen data for espionage .
vietnam cybersecurity company vsec said naikon still uses the popular attack method of sending a decoy email with a malicious file .
when the victim opens the email , the computer automatically installs the malware , helping hackers collect information , steal sensitive documents and attack other computers in the same system and elsewhere .
naikon also turns victims ' malware-infected devices and servers into a c2 server to launch new attacks targeting other government agencies .
truong duc luong , a vsec cybersecurity expert , said naikon 's return represents new threats to cybersecurity since it has likely silently studied and developed new , sophisticated and more dangerous attacks during the last five years .
in the past hacker group apt30 also used malicious software to access computers containing important political , economic and military intelligence in asia , mainly vietnam , thailand , south korea , malaysia , and india .
the espionage campaign lasted 10 years before being discovered by security company fireeye in 2015 .
the department of information security said in the first four months of this year it recorded a total of 1,056 cyberattacks on vietnam , a 51.4 percent year-on-year drop .
24 repatriates are vietnam 's latest covid-19 patients .
vietnam 's covid-19 tally jumped to 312 friday morning after 24 citizens repatriated from russia were confirmed positive .
friday morning marked 29 days straight that vietnam has gone without any cases caused by community transmission .
russia is the third worst infected country , after the us and spain , with more than 252,000 covid-19 cases and 2,305 deaths .
but vietnam health authorities have confirmed there is no likelihood of community transmission from the latest patients .
the 24 , one woman and 23 men , aged between 24 and 47 , had returned to vietnam on vietnam airlines flight vn0062 from russia to the northern province of quang ninh on wednesday under a government program to repatriate vietnamese residents living and working abroad .
they had been quarantined on arrival at centralized facilities in the provinces of quang ninh , thai binh and hai duong .
twenty-three of the latest patients are now treated at the thai binh general hospital and the other at hospital no.2 in quang ninh province .
with many special repatriation flights planned , the country will continue its focus on those arriving from abroad .
everyone entering the country will be placed in quarantine for a minimum of 14 days , the period said to be the incubation time for the covid-19 virus .
as of friday , no covid-19 death has been reported in the country .
the health sector is searching for a matching donor to provide a lung transplant for the most critical covid-19 case in the country , a 43-year-old british man whose lungs are just 10 percent functional .
the pandemic has affected 213 countries and territories , killing more than 303,000 people .
pm permits re-opening of sub-border gates with china .
the prime minister has allowed the re-opening of sub-border gates and border crossings to resume trading activities between việt nam and china , according to the ministry of industry and trade .
the permission has been issued according to the proposals from the ministry and people 's committees of lạng sơn and quảng ninh provinces on restoring those activities to get back to normal at border gates between the two countries .
they include bình nghi , na hình , nà nưa , pò nhùng and bắc phong sinh sub-border gates and ka long border crossing .
meanwhile , the pm has also allowed the people 's committees of border provinces to actively resume operation of other sub-border gates and border check-points in those provinces based on the local situation and the government 's existing regulations on management of land border gates and border trade activities .
the localities only re-open the sub-border gates that have large volume of goods at those gates , especially agricultural and aquatic products for export and imported raw materials for domestic production which are permitted to trade via the border gates by the local authorities of the two sides .
the pm has also requested those provinces to ensure control and prevention of the covid-19 pandemic for people and vehicles engaged in import and export activities under the guidance of the ministry of health and other relevant state offices .
ten vietnamese offer to donate lungs for british pilot .
as of this morning , may 14 , as many as vietnamese people have contacted the vietnam national coordinating center for human organ transplantation offering to donate lungs to the critically ill 91st coronavirus case , a 43-year-old british pilot .
the pilot was hospitalized on march 18 and remains the most critical covid-19 case in vietnam .
experts said a lung transplant is the last chance to save him .
lung ultrasound scans on may 13 showed that both his lungs have suffered extensive damage and only 10 percent of his lungs can function .
luong ngoc khue , director of the department of medical examination and treatment , noted that the man is 1.83 meters tall and weighs 100 kilograms , so it is hard to find suitable organs for a lung transplant .
the difference in size between the donated organ and the patient 's organ should not exceed 20 percent , not to mention immunity and other biochemical factors , he explained .
doctors plan to transfer him from the hcmc hospital for tropical diseases to cho ray hospital .
once an organ that meets size , immunity and biochemical requirements is found , doctors from vietnam-germany hospital and other hospitals that have successfully performed lung transplants will perform the operation .
a representative of the vietnam national coordinating center for human organ transplantation noted that the donated organs , including whole lungs or parts of lungs , must come from a brain-dead person .
for a living donor , the person must be the pilot 's relative .
according to the ministry of health , british authorities recently contacted the patient 's aunt .
the pilot is single and it is unknown whether his parents are alive .
meanwhile , national flag carrier vietnam airlines told the ministry that the man was not its official pilot but worked for the airline through an aviation human resource company .
ten people killed , several injured in đồng nai wall collapse .
ten people have been killed and several others injured in a wall collapse at giang điền industrial zone , trảng bom district , đồng nai province on thursday afternoon .
as of 5pm , the local medical sector confirmed ten people were killed in the accident , including eight who died on the spot and two others at the district hospital .
according to initial findings , the accident happened when a group of workers was constructing a brick wall at south korea-based av healthcare company .
rescue workers have been sent to the site to find more victims .
traffic police to make random inspections from may 15 .
traffic police nationwide will have the right to stop any driver to check their vehicle registration certificate , driving license , vehicle insurance , certificate of technical safety and environmental protection and other vehicle documents from may 15 to june 14 .
the campaign was introduced by the traffic police department to ensure safety and order as traffic in the country has worsened after social distancing measures and travel restrictions were removed .
any motorbike , car , bus , coach , or container truck can be stopped for inspection , according to thanh nien newspaper .
traffic police will also focus on handling traffic violations such as exceeding speed limits , driving in the wrong direction , not wearing a helmet , running red lights , recklessly overtaking and driving under the influence of alcohol .
the police will use handheld cameras or vehicle dash cams to record violations , which will be used as proof when determining penalties .
when performing breath alcohol tests , traffic police have to follow the instructions of the ministries of public security and health to ensure safety and hygiene .
breath alcohol testers must be carefully sanitized , and each breath pipe can only be used by one person .
chinese man gets death for killing vietnamese mother-in-law .
a chinese man was sentenced to death tuesday in the southern province of tay ninh for murdering his vietnamese mother-in-law .
xiong zhoughen , 39 , killed vo thi mong diep in a heated fight last year .
in 2018 , zhougen had married diep 's daughter and the couple had moved to china .
his wife later returned to vietnam and began living with her mother in may last year .
the following month , zhougen traveled to vietnam and lived with his wife and mother-in-law for a few days before asking diep for money to return home to china .
diep said she had no money and asked zhougen to leave .
a verbal fight then escalated into a physical one , between diep and zhongen .
zhougen then hit diep repeatedly in the head and face with a hammer before using a knife to slit her throat until she lay motionless .
zhougen tried to escape after the murder , but was apprehended later .
hà nội provides medical supplies to help moscow cope with covid-19 .
on behalf of the party organisation , administration and people of hà nội , chairman of the city people 's committee nguyễn đức chung presented medical supplies to the russian capital of moscow and the vietnamese community in the country on tuesday , in support of efforts to fight the covid-19 pandemic .
at the handover ceremony , hà nội presented 100,000 antibacterial cloth face masks and 50,000 medical face masks to moscow , along with another 50,000 masks to the vietnamese embassy and vietnamese community in russia .
chairman chung said all countries are making every effort to contain the pandemic but none can single-handedly deal with the problem .
based on the việt nam-russia comprehensive strategic partnership and the traditional friendship between the two capitals , the party organisation , administration and people of hà nội wish to share some of their resources with moscow 's administration and people in the fight against covid-19 , he noted .
for his part , russian ambassador to việt nam konstantin vnukov said that under the leadership of the communist party of việt nam and the country 's government , necessary measures have been adopted to curb the pandemic and việt nam is now among the best performers in combating covid-19 .
on behalf of the moscow administration and people , he thanked hà nội for the gifts .
court upholds 17-year prison sentence for former danang leader in illicit land acquisition .
on tuesday , the high-level people 's court of hanoi city delivered its rulings on the appeals by the 64-year-old minh .
his successor van huu chien , 66.phan van anh vu , 44 , who was the chairman of bac nam 79 construction jsc .
and 17 other defendants .
the panel of judges dismissed the appeals of minh and vu , who were found guilty of breaking regulations on the management and use of state properties , leading to losses and wastefulness , and those on land management .
having taken the case 's evidence and their testimonies into account , the higher court said the first-instance verdicts against the duo were based on reasonable , lawful and just grounds .
therefore , minh and vu will spend 17 and 30 years , respectively , behind bars for the two charges .
meanwhile , chien , who served as the danang leader between 2011 and 2016 , had his sentence commuted by two years to 10 years , due to his efforts to recover part of the damage .
they were found to have caused a total loss of some vnd 22 trillion ( us $ 945 million ) for the state through the transfer of 22 public housing and land complexes and seven real estate projects .
the higher court stated there were sufficient grounds to prove minh was the key individual who developed the policy to transfer these public properties and had directed chien and others accused in the case to commit the criminal act .
the first-instance verdicts , which concluded that minh and chien had played major roles in the case , were lawful , according to the judges .
at the appellate court , the former business mogul vu appealed against the entire first-instance verdict , claiming that he had no close relationship with the city 's leaders and thus ruled out the chance that he could have been their accomplice .
however , the higher court determined that vu had a close relationship with the former leaders , so the charges against him were appropriate .
vu moonlighted as an operative for the general department of intelligence with the ministry of public security in 2009 and left the organization in 2017 .
during that time , he abused his position and urged the ministry 's then-leaders enabled him to buy and transfer many state-owned plots of land in prime locations .
ex-chairman minh was aware that vu was not eligible to purchase these properties but still gave him the go-ahead to do so .
minh and his subordinates were found guilty of having granted vu a number of unlawful privileges , such as property handover at concessional prices without going through the due process of an auction .
for the remaining 17 defendants , their prison sentences were either reduced to between one and six years or became noncustodial sentences .
many countries have banned plastic bags .
it is not able to deny the convenience of plastic bags , but the overuse of plastic bags and the lack of the waste disposal methods have damaged our environment .
now , plastic bags are the enemy of human beings and the environment .
since october , beside supermarkets , confectioneries are also prohibited to provide free plastic bags to customers in korea .
in australia , the supermarket chain coles has started offering free eco-friendly bags for one month since the beginning of this month , with the purpose of helping customers adjust their shopping habits and preparing for stopping using plastic bags in the future .
meanwhile , the constitutional court of chile has approved has ratified a bill to ban the use of plastic bags in businesses , paving the way for it to become the first country in latin america to adopt the environmental protection measure .
eu , france back vietnam in fight against climate change .
the european union and the french development agency ( afd ) have established a 20-million-euro ( $ 21.5 million ) fund to help vietnam deal with climate change .
the eu will provide the money as a non-refundable grant to the afd to run the fund .
the latter will , in turn , provide loans for strategic projects in vietnam to improve the management of water and other resources and respond to challenges like floods and coastal erosion that climate change exacerbates .
eu ambassador to vietnam , giorgio aliberti , who signed an agreement for the fund with fabrice richy , director of afd , in vietnam on monday , said .
adaptation to climate change is crucial for the sustainability of vietnam 's development , and water and natural resources are a key element of it .
the intention of the new 20-million-euro grant is to support vietnam on a pathway towards a greener and resilient future and enhance natural resources management that will help restore and preserve ecosystems and boost the resilience of the local population .
according to the world bank , 70 percent of the country 's population are vulnerable to typhoons , floods , droughts , storm surges , saltwater intrusion , landslides , forest fires , and occasional earthquakes .
the risks are exacerbated by climate change .
floods and storms account for more than 40 percent of all-natural disasters .
vietnam is one of six economies most affected by climate change between 1999 and 2018 , according to the global climate risk index published last year by german environmental think tank germanwatch .
rising temperatures and sea levels , and the increased frequency and intensity of extreme weather events combined with population growth and urbanization are increasing the risk of coastal erosion , urban flooding and drought .
this year saltwater intruded 50-110 kilometers into major rivers in the mekong delta , even deeper than in 2016 , which was considered a very bad year .
six delta provinces , tien giang , ben tre , long an , kien giang , ca mau , and soc trang have declared an emergency over the salinity .
senior vietnam expressway corporation official arrested .
a deputy general director of state-run vietnam expressway corporation was arrested monday over violations in managing the da nang – quang ngai expressway project .
le quang hao was arrested by the ministry of public security 's investigative police department for construction law violations that led to serious consequences .
hao is said to be responsible for not following procedures , standards and design requirements in overseeing inspection of a 65-kilometer section of the expressway , which resulted in poor project quality .
fourteen other people including employees of the corporation , the country 's biggest expressway builder , members of the project management board and staff of other companies have also been arrested in the case .
reports about poor construction quality of the expressway , the first expressway in the country 's central region that connects da nang city and quang ngai province , first surfaced in 2018 after it developed cracks and potholes .
construction of the expressway had begun in 2013 .
a part of it was opened to traffic in 2017 and it became fully operational in september the following year .
however , just a month after the opening , cracks and potholes were seen in the aftermath of a heavy downpour in the area .
these were hundreds of square centimeters wide and 5-10 centimeters deep .
the expressway cost over vnd 34.5 trillion ( $ 1.4 billion ) to build .
china 's east sea fishing ban invalid agriculture ministry .
vietnam 's ministry of agriculture and rural development monday rejected china 's ban on fishing in vietnamese sea territory .
the ministry said the ban is invalid and directed provinces and cities to encourage fishermen to continue with their activities within vietnam 's territorial waters .
they should also guide groups and teams to support fishermen at sea , it said in a statement .
the east sea is internationally known as the south china sea .
the ministry said fishing vessels with licenses valid until the end of this year can fish in the tonkin gulf common fishing area , but asked them to avoid the area east of the tonkin gulf delimitation line .
the ministry has also requested local authorities to strengthen the management and supervision of fishing activities and monitor fishing vessels ' departure actively during this period , adding that the hotline of the department of fisheries control will be available for emergencies .
on april 30 , the hainan provincial department of agriculture announced that china 's annual fishing ban on the south china sea has begun on may 1 and would last until august 16 , chinese news agency xinhua reported , citing the south china sea branch of the china coast guard .
the ban would apply to certain sea areas of the south china sea that encompass parts of the gulf of tonkin and vietnam 's hoang sa ( paracel ) islands .
no fishing activities are allowed in sea areas under china 's sovereignty within the time period , except in certain cases , according to the hainan department .
during the ban , china would perform safety checks for fishing equipment and vessels , as well as instruct its fisherpeople on relevant policies and skills , it said .
the vietnam fisheries society has opposed china 's unilateral decision , saying the fishing ban has no legal value oversea areas under vietnam 's sovereignty .
four days later , vietnam 's foreign ministry also expressed clear opposition and asked beijing not to complicate the situation further .
vietnam has full legal basis and historical evidence to assert its sovereignty over the hoang sa ( paracel ) and truong sa ( spratly ) islands , as well as its legal rights over its waters in accordance with the united nations convention on the law of the sea ( unclos ) , foreign ministry spokeswoman le thi thu hang said .
china had seized the paracel islands from south vietnam by force in 1974 , and has been illegally occupying it since .
in 2012 it established the so-called sansha city .
the city also covers a number of reefs in the spratly islands that china seized by force in 1988 as well as the scarborough shoal .
france to import hundreds of millions of masks from việt nam .
france has announced it would import hundreds of millions of antibacterial cloth masks from việt nam by air .
accordingly , around 50 direct flights from việt nam to international airport roissy-charles de gaulle in paris will be operated until the end of may for the mask deliveries .
according to tuổi trẻ ( youth ) newspaper , patrick martin , president of the french employers association , said french businesses have been rushing to buy masks at high prices .
they must prepare the masks before citizens return to work under the newly announced easing of the country 's lockdown .
it was estimated that france would need 250 million masks each month while the country could only produce 40 million .
they therefore have to import masks to meet demand .
rtl radio said made-in-việt nam masks would be given to students , police officers and civil servants , as well as being sold at pharmacies .
the transport and logistics group bolloré logistics would take responsibility to bring the masks to france quickly .
the company is expected to organise two flights a day to transport the masks .
commune party secretary commits murder for insurance fraud .
do van minh , 49 , party secretary of lien ha commune in lam dong province , has been accused of murdering his nephew-in-law and staging what looks like a fatal accident to illegally gain vnd 18 billion in insurance payouts .
speaking at a press briefing today , may 11 , the dak nong police noted that during their preliminary investigation after arresting the culprit the previous day , minh had admitted to purchasing life insurance with an annual premium of over vnd 200 million in early april .
upon his death , his family members would be paid vnd 18 billion by the insurance company .
having incurred a debt of over vnd 10 billion , minh decided to fake his death , so his wife and children could receive the insurance payout .
minh owns two farms in dak g'long district in dak nong province , which he visits on fridays and saturdays .
on may 3 , minh visited the farm of his nephew in law tran nho vuong in dak nong province , where he ate dinner .
at 5 a.m the next day , minh killed the 25-year-old man with a hammer .
he then transported his nephew-in-law 's body in a pickup truck on national highway 28 in dak g'long district , crashed into a roadside pillar and used gasoline to set the vehicle and the deceased on fire to stage an accident .
minh then fled the scene to dong xoai city , binh phuoc province , the local media reported .
the dak nong police have yet to determine the level of involvement of his family members in the incident .
on may 4 , the wreckage of the pickup truck and its burned occupant were found on national highway 28 .
minh was arrested in binh phuoc province on may 10 .
doctors discuss lung transplant for covid-19 infected british pilot .
doctors from vietnam 's top hospitals are considering moving a covid-19-infected british pilot , who remains in critical condition , from hcmc hospital for tropical diseases to cho ray hospital , also in the city , for a possible lung transplant operation .
the 43-year-old vietnam airlines pilot was hospitalized on march 18 and remains the most critical covid-19 case in vietnam .
he tested negative for the coronavirus , which causes covid-19 , several times during treatment but then tested positive again a few days later .
lung ultrasound scans showed that both his lungs have suffered extensive damage , according to the ministry of health , and he is reportedly experiencing cytokine storms , an overreaction of the immune system , causing it to attack even healthy cells and organs .
during more than 50 days in treatment , he has been on an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation machine for 34 days as his lungs are unable to function fully .
he is also resistant to all coagulant drugs currently in use in the country , so the ministry of health had to order rare drugs from abroad for his treatment .
the doctors noted that he is 1.83 meters tall and weighs 100 kilograms , with a body mass index of 30.1 , so he is slightly obese .
luong ngoc khue , director of the department of medical examination and treatment , under the ministry of health , said that due to the patient 's weight , it is hard to find suitable organs for a lung transplant .
the difference in size between the donated organ and the patient 's organ should not exceed 20 percent , not to mention immunity and other biochemical factors , he said .
the ministry of health has asked the vietnam national coordinating center for human organ transplantation to work with cho ray hospital , hcmc hospital for tropical diseases , the central lung hospital , and other hospitals that have successfully performed lung transplants such as 103 hospital , 108 hospital , and vietnam-germany hospital to prepare for the patient 's lung transplant .
ministry to set up research group on cryptocurrency to tighten management .
the ministry of finance has decided to set up a research group which would be in charge of studying and proposing policies to manage virtual assets and crypto currencies .
the group had nine members , lead by phạm hồng sơn , deputy chairman of the state securites commission .
other members are from the state securities commission , the general department of taxation , state bank of việt nam 's department of banking and financial institutions and legal department , việt nam customs and the national institute for việt nam finance .
policies to effectively manage virtual assets were crucial in the context that virtual assets were developing rapidly but posing risks and might cause negative impacts on the market .
on august 21 , 2017 , the prime minister issued decision no 1255 qđ-ttg to approve the project about completing the legal framework for managing virtual assets , crypto currencies and electronic currencies .
on april 11 , 2018 , directive no 10 ct-tt was issued with the aim to enhance management on transactions related to bitcoin and other crypto currencies to put it under control and minimise their negative impacts .
governor of the state bank of việt nam on april 13 , 2018 issued directive no 02 ct-nhnn about measures to strengthen control over transactions related to crypto currencies in which credit institutions were asked not to supply some types of transactions related to virtual currencies to ensure compliance with established regulations about anti-money laundering and forex management .
according to crypto currrency market research company crytocompare , at the end of november 2017 , about 80 per cent of bitcoin transactions were found to originate from asia , mainly from china , japan , republic of korea and việt nam .
access from việt nam to crypto currency websites and trading platforms were in the top five highest in the world , beside the us , russia and japan .
bruce jones , co-founder and ceo of triton submarines , remarked , the triton deepview 24 with its panoramic views represents a quantum leap forward in submarine technology , providing a vastly improved , fully immersive guest experience .
the triton deepview 24 submarine was assembled at triton 's manufacturing facility in barcelona , where it successfully passed sea trials in march , according to dailymail .
hue offers 50 percent discount on sightseeing fees to stimulate tourism .
the central province of thua thien-hue has approved a post-covid-19 tourism stimulation program , offering up to 50 percent discounts on entrance tickets to visit world heritage sites from now to july 31 , 2020 , among other tourist incentives .
the new pricing was announced by nguyen van phuc , deputy director of the thua thien-hue department of tourism , following a meeting of the provincial people 's council on may 8 .
during the meeting , tourism figures were discussed .
in january , the province 's tourism industry reported the number of arrivals and revenue had year-on-year growth of 22.07 percent and 14.89 percent , respectively .
however , the coronavirus outbreak has had a heavy impact on the industry .
many of travel companies , hotels , restaurants and shops have had to temporarily suspend their businesses , and thousands of industry workers have lost their jobs .
in the first four months of this year , the province attracted 940,069 tourists , down 50 percent year-on-year .
the direct tourism revenue was vnd 859 billion , a decrease of 21 percent , while the combined revenue was vnd 2,079 billion , down 45 percent , as thua thien-hue lost some vnd 2,250 billion in tourism revenue .
thus , apart from solutions to support enterprises suffering from the downturn caused by the epidemic , it is necessary to put in place the tourism stimulation program .
on vietnam 's reunification day ( april 30 ) and may day , thanks to free-of-charge offers for visiting world heritage sites , the province attracted 22,000 tourists following the social-distancing period .
due to the promising results , the province decided to discount entrance fees by 50 percent from may 8 to july 31 this year .
the promotion might continue into the remainder of 2020 , depending upon the world 's tourism recovery .
the provincial tourism industry also encourages tourism companies to provide their own stimulation packages to attract more tourists .
at the meeting , leaders also discussed the national travel summit , to be held in thua thien-hue later this month to seek collaboration among hotels , travel companies and restaurants , as well as cooperation by three central localities , including quang nam province and danang city .
officials noted that tourist promotions will be held this year and next year , including festival hue 2020 , hue ao dai festival and hue hiphop festival .
china reports first coronavirus case in wuhan since april 3 among 14 new infections .
china 's national health commission reported 14 new confirmed coronavirus cases on may 9 , the highest number since april 28 .
jilin officials on sunday raised the shulan city risk level to high from medium after one woman tested positive on may 7 .
the 11 new cases made public on sunday are members of her family or people who came into contact with her or family members .
the new wuhan case , the first reported in the epicentre of china 's outbreak since april 3 , was previously asymptomatic , according to the health commission .
aside from the shulan cluster and the wuhan case , the remaining two new confirmed cases were imported infections .
it also said newly discovered asymptomatic cases were at 20 , the highest since may 1 and up from 15 a day earlier .
no new deaths were reported , it said .
the total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in mainland china reached 82,901 as of may 9 , while the total death toll from the virus stood at 4,633 , according to the commission .
vietnamese professor wins europe math prize .
prof. phan thanh nam has become the first vietnamese professor to win the european mathematical society ( ems ) prize .
prof. nam , 35 , is a former student of the national university of hcmc .
he is currently a math professor at the ludwig maximillian university in munich , germany .
nam 's research interests include mathematical physics analysis , especially multi-particle quantum mechanics , spectral theory , variational calculation , derivative equations and calculus .
before becoming a professor in germany , nam was an assistant professor in masaryk , czech republic and a member of austria 's science and technology society .
he has been invited twice to address the international convention of mathematical physics .
in 2018 , he was awarded a prize by the international union of pure and applied physics ( iupap ) for his work in mathematical physics research .
the ems prizes are considered the second most prestigious mathematics award after the field medal of the international mathematical union ( imu ) .
since established in 1992 , the ems prizes are awarded every four years at the european congress of mathematics ( ecm ) .
at each ecm up to ten ems prizes are awarded to young researchers not older than 35 years , who are european citizens or working in europe , in recognition of excellent contributions in mathematics .
this year , the prize-giving ceremony will not be held as usual at the european congress of mathematics ( ecm ) because of the covid-19 pandemic .
it has been postponed until june 2021 .
two dong nai senior cops with greased palms disciplined .
on may 8 , dong nai police decided to take the disciplinary action of transferring lt. col. pham hai cang ( team 2 vice-captain ) and lt. col. phan cam tu ( team 1 vice-captain ) out of the traffic department to the mobile police unit for letting vehicles violating traffic regulations to go free .
two dong nai traffic cops accused their superiors , cang and tu , of frequently letting violators off the hook because they have paid the team .
according to a traffic police captain who had worked with team 2 of the dong nai police department , the unit responsible for patrolling national highway 20 that connects the province with the central highlands ' da lat town , his patrol had arrested overloaded vehicles many times , only for superiors to let them go because they had paid .
just minutes after they made the arrest , a leader of team 2 would call , name the registration number of the overloaded vehicle , and order the patrol team to let it go .
two months later , cang and tu were suspended from work .
after verification of the allegations , major general nguyen ngoc hieu , deputy chief inspector of the ministry of public security , had said that there are reasons to believe that the two senior cops were guilty .
vietnam busts $ 858 mln online gambling ring , 21 arrested .
an online gambling ring worth vnd 20 trillion ( $ 858.3 million ) was busted by the ministry of public security wednesday , leading to 21 arrests .
the ring , led by 28-year-old nguyen thi huong ly and 24-year-old nguyen duc manh , utilized online gambling methods under the guise of games like poker and lottery , the ministry said .
the ring had servers overseas and cooperated with several clients inside vietnam .
the clients in vietnam used phone numbers and social media for players to contact and transact with them .
players transferred cash into bank accounts provided by the clients , or paid through top-up cards .
ly was in charge of creating clients ' accounts on the ring 's website for players to perform transactions .
she traveled from hanoi to saigon last month to rent a location for her accomplices .
she and manh guided several people in using their personal bank accounts to perform transactions and play the games on offer .
the total amount of money transacted by the gambling ring since january last year amounted to around vnd 20 trillion , police said .
ly , manh , and 18 others were arrested by police in hanoi and saigon on wednesday .
vietnam has relaxed its stance on gambling as a social evil , legalizing sports betting in 2017 and allowing , on a pilot basis , people aged over 21 with a monthly income of at least vnd 10 million ( $ 432 ) to play in a casino on the southern phu quoc island .
but all other forms of gambling remain illegal .
women leaders are handling the pandemic brilliantly .
why are n't there more of them ?
in taiwan , early intervention measures have controlled the coronavirus pandemic so successfully that it is now exporting millions of face masks to help the european union and others .
germany has overseen the largest-scale coronavirus testing program in europe , conducting 350,000 tests each week , detecting the virus early enough to isolate and treat patients effectively .
in new zealand , the prime minister took early action to shut down tourism and impose a month-long lockdown on the entire country , limiting coronavirus casualties to just four deaths .
all three places have received accolades for their impressive handling of the coronavirus pandemic .
they are scattered across the globe .
one is in the heart of europe , one is in asia and the other is in the south pacific .
but they have one thing in common .
they 're all led by women .
the success of these and other women-led governments in dealing with a global pandemic is all the more noteworthy , given that women make up less than 7 percent of world leaders .
these countries -- all multi-party democracies with high levels of public trust in their governments -- have contained the pandemic through early , scientific intervention .
they have implemented widespread testing , easy access to quality medical treatment , aggressive contact tracing and tough restrictions on social gatherings .
it 's too early to say definitively which leaders will emerge as having taken enough of the right steps to control the spread of coronavirus -- and save lives .
but the examples above show that a disproportionately large number of leaders who acted early and decisively were women .
amid a severe heat wave , consistently high uv levels have been threatening major vietnamese cities , with the index jumping to 'dangerous level ' this weekend .
data from weather online , a u.k.-based meteorological services provider , indicate the index in ho chi minh city would climb to a 'very high ' level of 10 on saturday and 11 on sunday , a dangerous level posing health risks to holiday-goers engaged in outdoor activities .
american forecast services provider accuweather said the city 's uv would reach 9 , also a very high level , on saturday and 12 on sunday .
data from weather online also showed the uv index in da nang city in central vietnam would rise to 11 this weekend while accuweather said it would reach 13 on saturday and sunday .
the region has been battered by a severe heat wave over the past days .
weather agencies forecast the uv index in hanoi would reach 12 this saturday but deem down to moderate levels on sunday , thanks to a couple thunderstorms .
a heatwave began affecting northern , north-central , and central localities on monday , raising the mercury across these regions to between 35 and 38 degrees celsius , according to the national center for hydro-meteorological forecasting .
from thursday until the weekend , the heat wave would continue hitting southern regions and the central highlands as well as south central provinces with temperatures reaching 35-37 degrees celsius from noon to 3 p.m , it added .
capital hanoi braced as the temperature reached up to 35-37 degrees celsius this week and is expected to stay there during the weekend , according to accuweather , which said real feel temperatures can reach 44 degrees celsius on saturday and drop to 42 degrees celsius .
weather online said hanoi 's temperatures would reach 34-35 degrees celsius this weekend while vietnam 's national forecast center said some places in the city can be affected by 40 degrees celsius .
statistics show since the beginning of the year , the average temperature across vietnam reached 1 to 2.5 degrees celsius higher than previous years , with the upward trend forecast to last till october .
major heat waves are forecast to hit northern provinces in may and june , while scorching hot temperatures in north-central and central provinces will last till august .
experts have advised residents to avoid direct exposure to sunlight between 10 a.m and 3 p.m and to wear sunscreen , sunglasses and brimmed hats if venturing out under the sun .
according to le thi xuan lan , a weather pundit based in southern vietnam , a tropical depression is likely to form in the pacific ocean near the philippines in early may , which will result in rain falling across multiple areas , including southern regions .
the rainy season is hoped to alleviate drought and saltwater intrusion that plaguing provinces in southern and central regions over the past months , lan added .
on march 24 việt nam capped exports of rice to ensure food security after the covid-19 pandemic broke out .
it is the world 's third-largest exporter after india and thailand .
last year the country exported 6.37 million tonnes worth us $ 2.81 billion , with its top markets being the philippines ( 2.1 million tonnes ) , ivory coast ( 580,000 tonnes ) , malaysia ( 550,000 tonnes ) , and china ( 477,000 tonnes ) .
exports in the first two months of this year had topped 890,000 tonnes and fetched $ 410 million , increases of 27 per cent and 32.6 per cent year-on-year .
according to the ministry of industry and trade , the country is projected to grow 43.5 million tonnes of the grain this year , nearly 30 million tonnes of which will be used for domestic consumption and the rest will be exported .
binh thuan declares drought emergency .
given the prolonged heat wave in the region , tens of thousands of residents in binh thuan province are facing a shortage of water , prompting the provincial government to declare a drought emergency .
with the drought worsening , nguyen ngoc hai , chairman of the south-central coastal province of binh thuan , on may 7 signed the decision on the level-two emergency .
the province 's chairman told the binh thuan department of agriculture and rural development to collaborate with the relevant agencies to determine which areas had been affected by the drought and to adopt response measures quickly .
certain construction projects , among other things , need to be started to ensure an adequate water supply for daily use and the water volume of reservoirs must be closely monitored , the local media reported .
a report by the binh thuan committee for natural disaster prevention and control and search and rescue showed that over the past six months , there has been no rain in binh thuan province .
the prolonged scorching heat has resulted in the destruction of some 15,000 hectares of crops .
besides this , the drought has left 25,000 households holding 93,000 people without sufficient clean water .
rivers , streams and drilling wells in the ham tan , tanh linh and duc linh districts have dried up , along with reservoirs in the province , including ba bau , song mong , ta mon and da bac .
severe water shortages have hit the ham tan , ham thuan nam and ham thuan bac districts in the province .
residents in many parts of binh thuan province have had to buy water from other areas at prices ranging from vnd 80,000 to vnd 120,000 per cubic meter to serve their daily activities .
vingroup to give 2,400 ventilators to russia and ukraine .
vingroup will give 2,400 invasive ventilators to russia and ukraine to help treat covid-19 cases in the two countries between may 15 to august 30 .
the embassy of the russian federation in việt nam and the embassy of ukraine in việt nam signed an agreement to receive the ventilators on may 6 in hà nội .
the invasive ventilators include vsmart vfs-410 and vfs-510 , the two made in vietnam invasive ventilators which have been completed and manufactured entirely within the vingroup ecosystem , with a localisation rate of up to 70 per cent .
nguyễn việt quang , vice chairman and ceo of vingroup said that .
by giving 2,400 invasive ventilators , vingroup hopes to actively contribute to the effective treatment of medical forces in russia and ukraine for patients and control of the covid-19 pandemic .
this shows the gratitude of the group 's management to the two countries for their close connection with the start-up process of vingroup .
in detail , vingroup will give russia 1,000 vfs-410 ventilators and 500 vfs-510 ventilators .
while giving ukraine 600 vfs-410 ventilators and 300 vfs-510 ventilators .
the vfs-410 and vfs-510 ventilators are currently being assessed by quality management agencies and the medical council of vietnam , ensuring compliance with quality standards for product circulation in viet nam .
at the same time , vingroup is promoting the supply of ventilator models for russia and ukraine to carry out quality inspection procedures in accordance with their current regulations .
the group will officially hand over 2,400 ventilators after being granted product circulation licences by russia and ukraine .
up to now , vingroup is one of the pioneering enterprises in asia in sponsoring and supporting the fight against the covid-19 pandemic with a total sponsorship fund of nearly vnđ600 billion ( us $ 25.7 million ) excluding funding for investment in manufacturing ventilators .
according to the worldometers.info statistics , by 7am may 6 , 2020 , there are more than 3.7 million covid-19 cases and nearly 258,000 deaths around the world .
russia is gradually becoming the current hotspot of covid-19 , with a total of 155,370 sars-cov-2 confirmed cases and 1,451 deaths .
while ukraine 's ministry of health reported a total of 12,697 covid-19 confirmed cases and 316 deaths as of may 6 .
trump thanks vietnam for medical supplies and gifts .
us president donald trump , speaking in a phone conversation with vietnam 's prime minister nguyen xuan phuc on may 6 ( hanoi time ) , thanked vietnam and its people for medical supplies and gifts for the united states and american people .
the conversation was conducted at the request of the us side , according to the vietnam news agency .
trump highly valued vietnam 's covid-19 response and expressed his appreciation of vietnam 's facilitation of the supply and transportation of medical supplies to america and its donations of face masks to american frontline workers .
the two countries should continue working together in the fight against covid-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus , he said .
phuc updated trump on vietnam 's covid-19 prevention and control effort and expressed his sympathies over the losses and difficulties that the americans are facing due to the disease .
however , he said he believes that under the leadership of president trump , the us will be able to put the disease under control and reopen its economy soon .
phuc hailed the bilateral cooperation between the two nations in combating covid-19 , and thanked the us president for offering to present ventilators to vietnam and providing financial support for the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) , including nearly us $ 10 million for vietnam to improve health care capacity and rehabilitate the economy .
both sides agreed to step up bilateral economic and trade ties and open up their markets for their goods in the time to come .
two-way trade between the countries continued to expand in the first quarter of 2020 , with us exports to vietnam growing 17 percent over the same period last year .
the two leaders also exchanged views on how to deepen the bilateral comprehensive partnership between vietnam and america , especially on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties .
trump affirmed that the us attaches importance to the comprehensive partnership with vietnam , and said that the vietnam-us relationship has strongly grown over the past 25 years .
on march 26 and april 28 , the two leaders exchanged letters on covid-19 .
on the same day , at the request of the us side , deputy prime minister and foreign minister pham binh minh had a phone conversation with us secretary of state mike pompeo .
the two sides agreed that vietnam-us relations have continued expanding in various aspects , especially economy and trade .
they also agreed to work together to organize cooperation activities on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the establishment of bilateral diplomatic ties in 2020 , thus deepening the vietnam-us comprehensive partnership .
pompeo hailed vietnam 's role in responding to common challenges , and agreed to boost coordination to promote ties between asean and the us while vietnam is serving as the asean 2020 chair and a non-permanent member of the united nations security council .
vietnamese covid-19 vaccine shows initial effect on mice .
50 mice in the lab remain healthy 10 days after being administered a covid-19 vaccine produced in vietnam .
the latest vaccine has been developed by collaborating scientists at the company for vaccine and biological production no.1 ( vabiotech ) and the u.k. 's bristol university .
dr. do tuan dat , president of vabiotech in hanoi , said .
this is the initial success in the development of covid-19 vaccine in vietnam .
dat said that during the testing phase , researchers experimented by injecting the mice in many ways and administering multiple antigen doses , with some mice injected with one or two doses of 3-10 micrograms each .
after 10 days , the mice are in good health and being closely monitored for immune responses , he said .
over the next four or five days , researchers will send the mice 's blood samples to the national institute of hygiene and epidemiology for first evaluation and the second in the next 14 days .
this is an important stage of research on the covid-19 vaccine in vietnam .
if the test is successful on mice , the research team will take their work further and seek funding from international agencies .
according to dat , the main ingredient in the vaccine is a strain carrying covid-19 antigens that scientists successfully generated in the lab and tested on other animals with good results .
so it is reasonable to expect the vaccine given to mice is also safe , he said .
after gaining positive results with immune response and antibody production , researchers will continue to develop complete vaccines and production technologies on many different scales , he added .
the institute estimates it will take at least 12-18 months to develop a covid-19 vaccine that can work safely on humans .
a vaccine is generally considered the most effective way to fight a viral disease .
there are currently no approved vaccines or medication for the covid-19 , which has killed more than 265,600 people worldwide and infected more than 3.8 million .
around 150 covid-19 vaccine development projects are being conducted worldwide .
in the past , vietnamese scientists also studied and developed a number of effective vaccines , including the polio vaccine , the oral cholera vaccine , and the h5n1 bird flu vaccine .
vietnam recorded 17 new covid-19 patients on thursday evening , all vietnamese repatriated from the uae .
the additions raised vietnam 's infection tally to 288 .
of these , 233 have recovered and been discharged and 55 are still under treatment .
vietnam has 17 new coronavirus cases , all from same flight .
the ministry of health reported 17 new coronavirus cases today , may 7 , all of whom are vietnamese returning to the mekong delta province of bac lieu from the united arab emirates on flight vn0088 on may 3 .
six of the patients are male and 11 are female , including three people of a family who lived with a coronavirus patient when they were in dubai .
they are aged between 20 and 58 , except a months-old child .
they were on the same flight with 280 other passengers .
all of them , as well as the flight crew , were put under quarantine on arriving in bac lieu province and their samples were taken to the pasteur institute hcmc for coronavirus test .
all 17 patients are being treated at bac lieu general hospital .
up to now , vietnam has reported 288 coronavirus cases .
of them , 233 patients have recovered and been discharged from the hospital , including one case in ha tinh province today .
coronavirus researcher on verge of 'significant findings ' killed .
the biology department at the university of pittsburgh school of medicine is in mourning after the shooting death of a scientist who it says was studying the biological makeup of the coronavirus and was on the verge of making very significant findings toward understanding the disease .
bing liu , 37 , a research assistant professor , was shot dead saturday in his suburban pittsburgh home .
bing liu was a research assistant professor in the biology department at the school of medicine , university of pittsburgh ( university of pittsburgh ) .
bing was on the verge of making very significant findings toward understanding the cellular mechanisms that underlie sars-cov-2 infection and the cellular basis of the following complications , the biology department said .
we will make an effort to complete what he started in an effort to pay homage to his scientific excellence .
liu was from china and lived with his wife , the pittsburgh post gazette reported .
they had no children .
a motive for the shooting has not been disclosed .
ivet bahar , the head of liu 's department told the paper liu was a very talented , extremely intelligent , and hard-working individual .
south korea , taiwan extend work visas for stranded vietnamese workers .
south korea and taiwan have decided to renew visas for foreign workers including vietnamese to fill a labor shortage amid the coronavirus outbreak .
there are 48,000 contracted vietnamese workers in south korea and 230,000 in taiwan , but it is not known how many are stranded in the two places after the expiry of their work visa due to the pandemic .
tran thi van ha , head of the overseas labor management agency at the ministry of labor , invalids and social affairs , said to help employers suffering from a lack of manpower due to the outbreak , the south korean government is set to allow those who wish to stay back an additional five months ' stay .
she also said taiwan would extend workers ' visas by three months .
taiwan is the second-largest overseas market for vietnamese labor with more than 54,480 going in 2019 .
south korea came in third with over 7,200 workers .
japan is the top destination that received more than 80,000 vietnamese workers last year .
south korea has reported over 10,800 covid-19 cases and 255 deaths as of wednesday morning , while taiwan has had 438 infections and six deaths .
closed border prevents cambodia children from attending schools in vietnam .
the department of education and training in an giang province said on tuesday its an phu district , which shares a border with cambodia , has 1,347 students from the neighboring country studying in grades in primary and high schools .
every day they would cross the border to attend class and return home afterward .
an giang authorities recently agreed to allow in 18 12th grade students , quarantine them for 14 days and then permit them to attend school .
the remaining 1,329 students have to wait until the border is reopened .
the department said it would instruct schools to organize extra classes for the students to make up for the time they are in quarantine .
nguyen thi diem tuyet , principal of a khanh an primary school in an phu , said of her school 's 1,049 students , around 390 live in cambodia .
the school has told the students in cambodia to follow classes on the an giang television channel .
teachers will also send curriculum materials to students via the internet .
with the government easing social distancing restrictions late last month many students returned to school on monday for the first time since the lunar new year in late january as a result of the covid-19 outbreak .
revenues of the aviation industry will drop by 55 percent in 2020 .
based on the information from the international air transport association ( iata ) on april 14 , revenues of the aviation industry were expected to fall by 55 percent or 314 billion usd in 2020 due to the impact of the severe acute respiratory syndrome called covid-19 .
it was the worst forecast for the aviation industry as this industry 's revenues were forecast to decline by 44 percent ( about 252 billion usd ) just three weeks ago .
it was alexandre de juniac , iata 's chief executive officer who said that the outlook of the aviation industry grew darker by the day .
uv indexes soar as cities enter heat wave .
ultraviolet ( uv ) indexes in hà nội , hcm city and đà nẵng on wednesday are forecasted to reach strong and very strong levels , raising the risk of skin damage in direct sunlight .
the uv index updated on weatheronline.co.uk on wednesday morning showed hà nội hit level 8 ( strong ) , hcm city reached level 10 ( very strong ) and đà nẵng city climbed to level 12 ( very strong ) .
a heat wave is predicted to hit northern and north-central regions including hà nội and đà nẵng until may 10 with temperatures reaching up to 40 degrees celsius and low humidity ranging from 30 to 45 percent .
temperatures will be at their highest between 10am and 6pm .
central highlands and southern provinces and cities will also experience temperatures of between 35 and 37 degrees celsius .
localities have been warned of fire risks due to the high demand for electricity and heat .
the heat might also cause exhaustion , dehydration and heatstroke if people are out in the sun for a long duration .
people are advised to apply sun cream , wear sunglasses and protective clothes when outside and refrain from going out at peak times .
the uv index is an international standard measurement of the strength of ultraviolet radiation from the sun .
between 0 and 3 is considered low and above 11 is deemed extreme with radiation that could burn skin and damage eyes within 20-30 minutes .
uv exposure is a powerful attack on the skin , creating damage that can range from premature wrinkles to dangerous skin cancer .
government programme encourages marriage before the age of 30 .
prime minister nguyễn xuân phúc has approved a birth rate adjustment programme towards 2030 which encourages people to get married before the age of 30 and women to give birth to their second child before they are 35 .
the programme sets the target to increase the birth rate by 10 per cent in localities with a low rate ( less than two children per couple ) and reduce the rate in localities with a high rate of more than 2.2 children per couple .
provinces and cities in which each woman of reproductive age has two to 2.2 children should maintain the rate or so-called desired fertility at replacement level .
the targets aim to help việt nam accomplish the national population strategy by 2030 .
areas with a low birth rate or desired fertility at replacement level should encourage families to have two children .
pm phúc asked local authorities to pilot policies to support couples in giving birth and raising children .
getting married or giving birth at an old age is not encouraged .
couples who have two children will have their income tax reduced and be assisted with children 's tuition fees or expenses to rent houses or buy social housing .
children of these families will have priority to be admitted to public schools .
local authorities have been asked to pilot marriage and family consultation services such as friend-making clubs and pre-marriage health consultations .
pregnant women or those having two children have access to mother and baby healthcare and malnutrition prevention consultations .
samsung việt nam continues to recruit engineers .
samsung vietnam on monday officially announced the massive recruitment of high-tech employees in 2020 with deadline for applications on june 7 , 2020 .
in order to leverage production activities further in 2020 , samsung vietnam continues to recruit engineers , bachelors of all majors from universities and institutes throughout the country .
the recruitment in 2020 also marks samsung 's 10 years of nurturing and developing high-quality human resources in việt nam .
samsung vietnam annually organises large-scale recruitment , with a frequency of twice a year since 2011 .
in particular , samsung is the first and only unit to conduct the global samsung aptitude test ( gsat ) on a large scale , to ensure openness , transparency and offer equal opportunities for all bachelors in việt nam .
this is also a round in the samsung 's global recruitment process .
this year , samsung has recorded impressive numbers of nearly 190,000 applications .
some 60,000 candidates taking part in the gsat round and nearly 14,000 employees were recruited from this exam .
choi joo ho , president of samsung vietnam , said .
china repatriates 30 illegal vietnamese farmworkers .
china has sent back 30 illegal vietnamese farmworkers , and they have been quarantined for 14 days to ensure they do not have covid-19 .
border forces in china 's yunnan province last saturday handed over the eight men and 22 women to their counterparts in lao cai province .
the workers , many of them ethnic h'mong people , had reportedly crossed into china through paths looking for jobs on banana and rubber farms in yunnan since november last year .
when the covid-19 pandemic began in december chinese authorities sought to identify foreign workers to contain the spread of the virus and found these vietnamese had entered illegally .
they placed them in detention for more than three months before sending them home .
at the lao cai border , the returnees had to make health declarations and were then sent to a quarantine center for 14 days .
lao cai has set up 13 quarantine centers .
last month it received 500 workers returning from china , border authorities said .
they went to that country legally , but had to return since chinese factories have been laying off workers due to the impact of the pandemic .
china , where covid-19 first broke out in wuhan city last december before spreading to 211 other countries and territories around the world , has reported more than 82,000 cases of infection and 4,633 deaths .
discharged covid-19 patient dies of liver cirrhosis in vietnam .
a 64-year-old man from ha nam province , who was discharged after testing covid-19 negative four times , died last friday of liver cirrhosis , the health ministry said monday night .
patient 251 , who tested positive for the virus on april 7 , was treated at the national hospital of tropical diseases in hanoi .
he was discharged from the hospital on april 17 after testing negative four times in a row and transferred to the ha nam general hospital in the northern province of ha nam for treatment of liver cirrhosis .
since march 20 , he had been treated at the ha nam general hospital 's gastroenterology department for liver cirrhosis , exhaustion , and severe gout .
the patient went comatose due to severe impairment of liver function and electrolyte disturbance before his death .
after the patient died , the ha nam general hospital carried out a covid-19 test and the result came back negative .
the patient did not have any symptoms of lung damage caused by covid-19 , doctors said .
on monday , the health ministry discussed the case with leading health experts and confirmed his death was not caused by the novel coronavirus .
vietnam has not recorded any covid-19 deaths so far .
three patients are in critical condition .
pm officially gives green light to export of medical face masks .
prime minister nguyễn xuân phúc has given the green light to the export of medical face masks without any caps on export volume so that việt nam would not miss out on the opportunity of becoming the world 's face mask factory amid the covid-19 pandemic .
the government 's resolution no 60 nq-cp dated april 29 removed resolution no 20 's regulation on licences for export of medical face masks .
under resolution 20 dated february 20 , medical face masks could only be exported for international aid and assistance provided by the government with export volume capped at 25 percent of the producer 's total output .
the prime minister also asked the ministry to propose appropriate measures on managing medical face masks based on the development of the pandemic and the domestic demand to ensure adequate supply for the domestic market .
in addition , the ministries of health , and industry and trade must make public the list of face mask producers and their production capacity and export volume .
the ministry of industry and trade ( moit ) must enhance management and inspection to prevent speculation of face masks and raw materials as well as the production of poor-quality products .
producers must be responsible for their product quality and pledge to supply medical organizations when required .
customs statistics showed that việt nam exported 415.7 million face masks worth us $ 63.19 million from january 1 to april 19 , mainly to japan , the republic of korea , germany , and the us .
according to the moit , 50 domestic producers which reported to the ministry alone had a total production capacity of eight million face masks per day .
films that are n't released in theaters are still able to contend for the 2021 oscars .
the acute respiratory infection pandemic , covid-19 has caused hollywood 's movie capital to face an unprecedented fact , which is that all films released in 2020 may not be shown at theaters .
in addition , the us movie theaters have been closed since mid-march , it remains unclear when they will be reopened .
therefore , on april 28 , it was the academy of motion picture arts and sciences ( ampas ) that made a decision to make an important change to the rules on how they will consider films for this award , which films that are n't released in theaters are still eligible for the 2021 oscars .
according to the traditional oscars rules , what ampas stipulates is that a film would have to be shown at least 7 days in movie theaters in order to be considered for the world 's most prestigious film award .
once movie theaters are reopened , ampas will make the next decision on when to stop the above-mentioned flexible rule .
vietnam tests covid-19 vaccine on mice .
the covid-19 vaccine was developed after scientists successfully generated the novel coronavirus antigen in the lab , said dr. do tuan dat , president of the company for vaccine and biological production no.1 ( vabiotech ) in hanoi .
antigen units are the most important ingredient in vaccine production , helping the body process antigens .
after testing the vaccine in mice for two weeks , scientists will conduct blood tests on the animal , sending samples to the national institute of hygiene and epidemiology .
dat said the vaccine will be tested further in animals and evaluated for safety and effectiveness before a manufacturing process is embarked on .
the vaccine has been developed by collaborating scientists at vabiotech and the u.k. 's bristol university .
a vaccine is said to be the most effective way to fight against a viral disease .
produced from weakened virus or a protein or other small pieces taken from it , a vaccine trains the body 's immune system to fight the disease it has not come into contact with before .
there are currently no approved vaccines or medication for the covid-19 , which has killed nearly 245,000 people worldwide and infected almost 3.5 million .
around 150 covid-19 vaccine development projects are being conducted worldwide .
big breakfasts help us burn double the calories .
researchers have revealed what might be a highly popular new way to lose weight - eat a big breakfast .
it could become the biggest diet fad ever for those wishing to shed a few kilos .
scientists in germany conducted a study on how a hearty breakfast affected the body 's metabolism in a laboratory experiment .
sixteen men ate a low-calorie breakfast and high-calorie dinner one day , and reversed this with a high-calorie breakfast and low-calorie dinner the next .
eating a larger breakfast and a smaller dinner boosted a process called diet-induced thermogenesis ( dit ) .
this is the generation of heat in the body that burns up calories .
this happened even when the total calories consumed throughout the day remained the same .
eating a big breakfast led to 2.5 times higher rates of dit .
researcher dr juliane richter spoke about the findings of her investigation .
she said , our results show a meal eaten for breakfast , regardless of the number of calories it contains , creates twice as high dit as the same meal consumed for dinner .
this finding is significant for all people as it underlines the value of eating enough at breakfast .
vietnam reports new coronavirus case tonight .
a british oil expert has tested positive for the coronavirus , taking the country 's total number of confirmed cases to 271 tonight , may 3 , according to the ministry of health .
the 37-year-old man , who works at vietnam oil and gas group ( petrovietnam ) , arrived at hcmc-based tan son nhat international airport , with 12 other experts on april 28 .
after their arrival , they were sent to a quarantine center in the city 's outlying district of can gio , thus posing no risks for community spread .
all the experts first tested negative for covid-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus , on april 28 .
however , the second test results showed one , now the 271st patient , had the virus on may 2 .
the patient is being treated at the city 's cu chi field hospital .
among 271 covid-19 patients , 219 cases have made a full recovery and there have been no coronavirus fatalities , the local media reported .
china is trying to revive its economy without risking more lives .
china is trying to jump-start its huge economy without triggering a second wave of coronavirus cases .
it 's a high-stakes experiment that could provide clues for countries agonizing over how long to keep their shutdowns in place as a global recession begins and millions of jobs are lost .
the country where the pandemic began was almost completely shut down in late january as the number of coronavirus cases mounted .
the drastic measures appear to have brought the virus under control .
locally transmitted infections have plummeted , and a lockdown on most of hubei province — ground zero of the pandemic — is being lifted this week .
but the lockdown also brought activity in much of the world 's second biggest economy to a standstill for weeks on end , and is likely to result in china 's first contraction in decades .
analysts at goldman sachs recently forecast that china 's gdp may fall by 9 percent in the first quarter of the year , compared to the same period in 2019 .
the chinese government knows that its actions to contain the virus came at the expense of the country 's economic health .
now authorities are trying to ensure that those consequences are short lived .
the economic losses have become intolerable , xingdong ( xd ) chen , chief china economist for bnp paribas , told cnn business , adding that the government has to balance resuming work while remaining vigilant .
i do n't think it is right to restart business and production only when the virus has totally disappeared .
vietnam ends 16th day without covid-19 community transmission .
the health ministry confirmed no new coronavirus cases saturday evening , marking the 16th consecutive day vietnam has gone without community transmission of covid-19 .
of the 270 patients recorded so far , 217 have been discharged and 53 are undergoing treatment , including 14 relapsed patients .
of the relapses , five are in hanoi and six in ho chi minh city including the latest two cases confirmed saturday .
the northern province of quang ninh has reported two relapsed patients and the south central province of binh thuan one .
so far , vietnam has gone eight days without new infections .
the latest patients , announced last friday evening , were both students studying in japan who returned to the van don airport in quang ninh on april 22 .
they were quarantined on arrival and are now under treatment at the national hospital of tropical diseases in hanoi .
nearly 30,000 people are quarantined in the country – 244 in hospitals specialized for covid-19 treatment , over 5,500 at centralized facilities and the rest at home .
the health ministry also said saturday that three critically-ill covid-19 patients in vietnam have overcome the most difficult stage .
the covid-19 pandemic has spread to 212 countries and territories , with almost 240,000 deaths reported so far .
việt nam exports nearly 416 million face masks .
việt nam exported 415.7 million face masks worth us $ 63.19 million from january 1 to april 19 , according to the general department of customs .
between april 1 and 19 there were 88.19 million face masks worth $ 344 million exported , including 51.3 million that were gifts and donations .
japan was the biggest importer of made-in-vietnam face masks in the period , with 32.7 million , followed by the republic of korea , germany , and the us , with 17.1 million , 11.1 million , and 10.4 million , respectively .
in early april , prime minister nguyễn xuân phúc approved the export of medical face masks and protective clothing , as long as domestic demand , including reserves , is met first .
such products can therefore only be exported to countries that have been hit hard by the covid-19 pandemic .
the ministry of health 's figures showed that there are some 68 companies producing medical face masks and protective clothing in việt nam .
some garment companies are also investing in producing medical face masks , besides cloth face masks , such as the garment 10 corporation joint stock company and tng investment and trading joint stock company .
the vietnam trade office in the eu has warned that the mass production of medical face masks and protective clothing that do not follow technical standards will cause oversupply and damage if such products can not be exported .
trần thanh hải , deputy director of the ministry of industry and trade 's import-export department , urged face mask producers to pay attention to quality and safety requirements and obtain the necessary certificates for export .
new decree to protect vietnamese abroad from hazardous employ .
vietnamese will be banned from working seven types of dangerous jobs while overseas , including massage , under a government decree effective may 20 .
under the new decree , guiding the new law on vietnamese working overseas under contract , recruiters will not be allowed to send citizens abroad for seven dangerous and hazardous jobs .
they will be forbidden to work in jobs that come in frequent contact with explosives and toxic substances in the metallurgy of non-ferrous metals , as well as jobs that involve exposure to open radioactive sources and exploitation of radioactive ores of all kinds .
they are banned working production and packaging jobs that expose them to nitric acid , sodium sulfate , pesticides , herbicides , mice , antisepsis , and termites with strong toxicity .
hunting wild animals , crocodiles and sharks is also forbidden .
in addition , recruiters are banned from sending vietnamese abroad working in pressure-sensitive conditions , such as underground or the diving industry .
those jobs involved in shrouding , burying of the dead , cremation of corpses and exhuming graves is also on the banned list for vietnamese workers abroad .
over 147,000 workers went abroad last year , up 3.2 percent from 2018 , marking the sixth year in a row the figure exceeded 100,000 , according to official statistics .
in recent years , many vietnamese women have been caught working illegally as masseuses or sex workers at restaurants and entertainment facilities in other southeast asian countries .
many of them were trafficking victims .
composer of vietnamese covid-19 song scrapes onto billboard .
the original vietnamese version has earned over 40 million views on youtube while the english version released earlier this month garnered over two million .
my intention was to send a clear message on how we could all help reduce the spread of the virus , hung told billboard , adding he hopes to use music to provide comfort to frontline soldiers , medics , public workers and those still providing essential services during the battle against the novel coronavirus .
choreographer quang dang assisted in popularizing the song by introducing specific hand gestures and dance steps .
ghen co vy is the most famous vietnamese pop song of 2020 so far , covered by press outlets around the world , billboard stated .
calling renowned swedish hitmaker max martin his main inspiration , hung said he is surprised by how much attention the song has gained and proud that it has brought such positivity to the global covid-19 prevention campaign .
last month , the song featured on last week tonight with john oliver with an animated mv depicting comedic images of the novel coronavirus and masked characters washing their hands to prevent infection .
saigon students back in school next week after prolonged covid-19 break .
hcmc students will resume school from monday after a three-and-a-half month break , and hanoi has similar reopening plans .
however , schools would assemble their students in a scattered manner according to grades , the ho chi minh city administration said tuesday .
over 87,000 ninth-graders who are about to take their high school entrance exams , and over 63,000 12th-graders who need to take their high school graduation exams will go back to school on monday and start normal classes the next day .
students from fourth to eighth grades , and 10th and 11th graders , will gather at school on may 8 and start classes from may 11 .
those from first to third grades will gather at school on may 11 and start classes the next day .
kindergarten classes will reopen between may 18 and june 1 .
high school students and students of regular education and vocational training centers in hcmc would be provided three masks per month for a total of three months when they start classes again .
over 135,000 students are at the city 's colleges and vocational training centers .
meanwhile , the capital city 's secondary and high school students are also likely to return to school on may 4 , hanoi chairman nguyen duc chung said at a meeting with the steering committee for the prevention and control of covid-19 monday .
the return-to-school date will be decided wednesday , he added .
vietnamese students are typically given a two-week spring holiday and a three-month summer break .
however , due to the covid-19 pandemic , over 22 million students have been on a prolonged school break following the lunar new year holiday in late january .
this is the first time in history that vietnamese students have had to take such a long spring break due to a pandemic .
in response , students and teachers have taken part in online lessons , the ministry of education and training has cut short the year 's curriculum and recognized online learning results .
with hcmc , 60 out of 63 cities and provinces in vietnam have decided when their schools would reopen , with most choosing dates between late april and early may .
hanoi and ha giang in the north and ben tre in the south are the three localities who have not announced their school resumption plans .
vietnam eased social distancing restrictions from april 23 , but people are still required to wear face masks and maintain minimum distance of one meter from each other in public places .
gatherings of more than 30 people in public places are forbidden .
vietnam has confirmed 270 covid-19 cases so far .
the pandemic has spread to 210 countries and territories and its reported death toll has crossed 211,900 .
vietnamese ost hits billboard chart .
i 'll give my soul ' , performed by vietnamese singer dang mai phuong , has entered the weekly billboard adult contemporary indicator chart .
after basking in the top 30 during the past two weeks , i 'll give my soul has climbed to 21st position on billboard , which lists the most popular songs on adult contemporary radio stations across the us .
the song is composed by taylor eros and features in the cinema project trung vuong ( she – kings ) , which is still in production .
written for a female hero from the movie , i 'll give my soul delivers a message of resilience and courage during an historic war .
in the movie , she has her husband killed before being forced to marry her enemy .
by entering the billboard chart , the song stands alongside other international hits , including the man by taylor swift and memories by maroon 5 .
previously , my tam was the only vietnamese singer to break into a billboard chart with her ninth album in the top 10 world album chart2018 .
dang mai phuong was born in 1996 in the northern province of thai binh .
she came to ho chi minh city in 2014 and was in several musical bands .
in she - kings , she sings the soundtrack and do voiceovers for a protagonist .
she - kings is an animation movie about hai ba trung or the trung sisters , trung trac and trung nhi , vietnamese military leaders who ruled for three years after rebelling in 40 ce against the first chinese .
they are regarded as national heroines .
vingroup produces ventilators to fight covid-19 .
vietnamese conglomegrate vingroup today , april 28 , announced it has manufactured ventilators to assist with the medical treatment of covid-19 patients in the country .
the group is set to launch the first batch of its two invasive ventilation machine models -- -the vfs-410 and vfs-510 -- -on may 15 on the local market .
the lifesaving medical devices were studied and manufactured by local engineers over the course of three weeks , with a localization rate of 70 percent .
the vsmart vfs-410 is an updated version of the first model , the vfs-310 , which vingroup engineers developed from design ideas presented by mit university .
the production of the vsmart vfs-510 was handled in cooperation with us ventilator developer medtronic .
the two vingroup-made ventilator models have been sent to the health ministry so hospitals and health experts can assess the products'quality before they are launched on the local market .
former oceanbank chairman gets extra 10 years in jail .
the people 's court of hanoi sentenced former chairman of ocean commercial bank ( oceanbank ) ha van tham to 10 years in prison on charges of breaking accounting regulations , causing serious consequences , at a trial today , april 28 .
between 2010 and 2014 , at the instruction of tham , oceanbank paid more than vnd 1.576 trillion in extracontractual interest sums to some 51,000 individuals and 392 organizations that deposited money at the bank .
to compensate for the money , tham instructed le thi thu thuy , then-deputy general director of oceanbank , to coordinate with the bank 's public relations and accounting departments to create fake contracts with 19 partners , resulting in losses of more than vnd 106 billion for oceanbank .
he was earlier sentenced to 15 years in prison on charges of breaking lending rules with serious consequences and life imprisonment on charges of abusing power and deliberately infringing state regulations on economic management , causing serious consequences .
the total sentence for tham is life imprisonment .
thuy was sentenced to 24 months behind bars .
two other defendants in the case were sentenced to 20 months in jail .
ardern .
new zealand has 'won battle ' against community transmission of covid-19 .
new zealand 's prime minister , jacinda ardern , has said the country has stopped the widespread community transmission of covid-19 , as tough lockdown restrictions are scheduled to ease on monday night .
ardern said new zealand had avoided the worst in the pandemic , but must continue to fight the virus .
we have won that battle .
but we must remain vigilant , she said .
at 11.59pm on monday , new zealand will lift its level-4 lockdown which has been in place for more than four weeks .
during that time , almost all businesses have been closed , along with schools while the population has been asked to remain in their homes for all but supermarket visits and short walks .
ardern said there was no way of knowing what may have happened without the level-4 lockdown .
but she warned that in level-3 there were new risks – namely people coming into more contact with others .
level 3 will see retailers , restaurants and schools allowed to reopen on a smaller scale .
schools will reopen on wednesday for children up to year 10 who can not study from home , or whose parents need to return to work .
workers will also be able to resume on-site work , provided they have a covid-19 control plan in place , with appropriate health and safety and physical distancing measures .
it is expected one million new zealanders will return to work on tuesday .
alibaba demotes tmall boss jiang fan , says personal scandal damaged company reputation .
alibaba announced on april 27 that jiang fan , the head of its e-commerce business units and a partner at the company , will be demoted as a punishment for his personal scandals damaging the company 's image .
jiang will be removed as one of the company 's 38 partners , and demoted from senior vice president to vp , down one level from m7 to m6 , according to alibaba 's internal managerial level guidebook .
he will also be deprived of all bonuses from the previous financial year .
jiang will still keep his job as the head of alibaba 's taobao and tmall , two of china 's leading e-commerce websites .
earlier this month , dong yang , wife of the executive , accused of zhang dayi , a popular chinese influencer who also runs several fashion-focused companies that operate on alibaba 's platforms , of seducing jiang .
ruhnn holdings , zhang 's holding company , owns several of the top performing shops on tmall and taobao , and was invested by alibaba in 2016 .
an internal investigation that began two weeks ago found that dealings between ruhnn holdings and the business units jiang leads did not show signs of misconduct , such as profit transferring .
jiang was not included in the decision that led to alibaba investing in ruhnn holdings .
the investigation found , however , that jiang 's failure to properly handle his family affairs had caused a public opinion crisis and severely damaged the company 's reputation .
jiang , 35 , is one of the youngest top executives at alibaba .
started as an engineer in google china , he later went on to co-found umeng , the mobile-focused data services provider that alibaba acquired in 2013 .
jiang became the president of taobao in 2017 , and took over tmall in 2019 .
jiang is also a member of alibaba 's strategic execution committee .
vietnam masters two covid-19 test methods .
vietnam has not only mastered the test that looks for genes present in the coronavirus known as sars-cov-2 , but it has also succeeded in developing quick tests , heard attendees at a meeting of the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control today , april 27 .
speaking at the meeting chaired by deputy prime minister vu duc dam , the committee representative noted that the world is employing two covid-19 test methods .
real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reactions ( rt-pcr ) and antibody tests for rapid testing .
for the pcr test method , deputy minister of health nguyen thanh long stated that in the initial period , vietnam used biological products from foreign countries but later developed these products for pcr to replace the foreign source .
vietnam has to date tested 212,000 samples and recorded 270 cases of covid-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus .
the rate of positive findings reached 0.13 percent .
the vietnam-made test kits for the pcr method have been recognized by the world health organization and the united kingdom .
as such , covid-19 test kits manufactured in vietnam can be sold on the global market , the local media reported .
for the quick test method , the representative of the ministry of health explained that vietnam 's national institute of hygiene and epidemiology had worked with a japanese university to develop rapid test kits with high efficiency .
vietnam is the world 's fifth country to successfully manufacture this type of quick test kit .
vietnam to export litchi to japan for first time .
bac giang province expects to export vietnam 's first ever batch of litchi to japan in late may , heard attendees at a meeting between minister of agriculture and rural development nguyen xuan cuong and the province 's leaders on april 26 .
vice chairman of the province lai thanh son said the provincial authorities have worked closely with traders and farmers to ensure the farming processes and litchi quality meet japan 's requirements and to help them manage their processing , packaging and sterilization system .
all preparations for litchi exports to japan are nearly complete .
the ministry of agriculture , forestry and fisheries of japan wrote to the vietnamese ministry of agriculture and rural development in mid-december 2019 approving the import of vietnam 's litchis following five years of talks between the two sides .
previously , japan had opened its market to vietnamese dragon fruit and mangoes .
bac giang province is the largest producer of litchis in vietnam , with 28,000 hectares of land and an estimated yield of 160,000 tons .
some 15,000 hectares ( 53 percent ) meet the vietgap standard and 80 hectares meet the globalgap standard .
the province also ships litchis to china , the united states and the european union .
south korean officials call for caution amid reports that north korean leader kim is ill .
south korean officials are calling for caution amid reports that north korean leader kim jong un may be ill , emphasising that they have detected no unusual movements in north korea .
at a closed door forum on sunday , south korea 's unification minister kim yeon-chul , said the government has the intelligence capabilities to say with confidence that there was nothing unusual happening .
rumours and speculation over the north korean leader 's health began after he made no public appearance at a key state holiday on april 15 , and has since remained out of sight .
south korea media last week reported that kim may have undergone cardiovascular surgery or was in isolation to avoid exposure to the new coronavirus .
on monday , north korean state media once again showed no new photos of kim nor reported on his whereabouts .
however , they did carry reports that he had sent a message of gratitude to workers building a tourist resort in wonsan , an area where some south korean media reports have said kim may be staying .
last week china dispatched a team to north korea including medical experts to advise on kim jong un .
reuters was unable to immediately determine what the trip by the chinese team signalled in terms of kim 's health .
on friday a south korean source told reuters their intelligence was that kim jong un was alive and would likely make an appearance soon .
experts have cautioned that kim has disappeared from state media coverage before , and that gathering accurate information in north korea is notoriously difficult .
north korea 's state media last reported on kim 's whereabouts when he presided over a meeting on april 11 .
kim , believed to be 36 , vanished from state media for more than a month in 2014 and north korean state tv later showed him walking with a limp .
china sent team including medical experts to advise on north korea 's kim .
china has dispatched a team to north korea including medical experts to advise on north korean leader kim jong un .
the trip by the chinese doctors and officials comes amid conflicting reports about the health of the north korean leader .
reuters was unable to immediately determine what the trip by the chinese team signaled in terms of kim 's health .
a delegation led by a senior member of the chinese communist party 's international liaison department left beijing for north korea on thursday .
the department is the main chinese body dealing with neighbouring north korea .
the liaison department could not be reached by reuters for comment late on friday .
china 's foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment late on friday .
daily nk , a seoul-based website , reported earlier this week that kim was recovering after undergoing a cardiovascular procedure on april 12 .
south korean officials said they had detected no signs of unusual activity in north korea .
on thursday , us president donald trump also downplayed earlier reports that kim was gravely ill .
i think the report was incorrect , trump told reporters , but he declined to say if he had been in touch with north korean officials .
on friday , a south korean source told reuters that kim was alive and would likely make an appearance soon .
an official familiar with us intelligence said that kim was known to have health problems but they had no reason to conclude he was seriously ill or unable eventually to reappear in public .
a us state department spokeswoman had no comment .
us secretary of state , mike pompeo , when asked about kim 's health on fox news after trump spoke said , i do n't have anything i can share with you tonight , but the american people should know we 're watching the situation very keenly .
north korea is one of the world 's most isolated and secretive countries , and the health of its leaders is treated as a matter of state security .
reuters has not been able to independently confirm any details on kim 's whereabouts or condition .
north korea 's state media last reported on kim 's whereabouts when he presided over a meeting on april 11 .
kim , believed to be 36 , has disappeared from coverage in north korean state media before .
in 2014 , he vanished for more than a month and north korean state tv later showed him walking with a limp .
speculation about his health has been fanned by his heavy smoking , apparent weight gain since taking power and family history of cardiovascular problems .
when kim jong un 's father , kim jong il , suffered a stroke in 2008 , south korean media reported at the time that chinese doctors were involved in his treatment along with french physicians .
five dead as flashfloods , landslides hit northern vietnam .
heavy floods and landslides triggered by torrential rains in northern vietnam over the past three days have left five dead and over 10,300 houses damaged .
from april 22 to 24 , a cold spell combined with the convergence of high winds caused heavy rain in the northern mountainous region , with rainfall in many areas of up to 130 mm a day .
lai chau province reported two deaths while ha giang , son la and yen bai reported one death each , according to the central steering committee for natural disaster prevention and control .
twenty-five others have been injured and some are still missing , the committee said .
the total damage so far is estimated at vnd 130 billion ( $ 5.5 million ) , with 10,330 houses damaged and over 3,000 hectares of rice and other crops destroyed .
lai chau has issued flash flood and landslide warnings to all areas , and residents of some houses in vulnerable locations haver been evacuated to safer areas .
the national center for hydrometeorological forecasting said northern mountainous provinces will experience heavy rains until sunday .
lai chau , dien bien and lao cai provinces are at high risk of flashfloods and landslides , it said .
natural disasters , mostly floods and landslides , killed 133 people in vietnam last year and caused losses worth around vnd 7 trillion ( $ 302.6 million ) , according to the ministry of agriculture and rural development .
nearly 10,000 overseas vietnamese to return home to shun pandemic .
the health authority in hcmc has been told to be prepared to receive and quarantine an estimated 10,000 vietnamese returnees from abroad amid the coronavirus pandemic .
of these , 300 vietnamese students in the united states are expected to arrive in the city through tan son nhat international airport on april 27 , municipal chairman nguyen thanh phong said at a meeting on covid-19 infection prevention and control on april 24 .
he asked the hcmc health department to take steps to send these returnees to isolation centers right after their arrival , reported dan tri newsite .
the city 's leader cited examples of two vietnamese students returning from japan recently and testing positive for the new coronavirus , noting that extreme caution should be maintained during the fight against the coronavirus .
speaking at the meeting , nguyen huu hung , deputy director of the municipal health department , said that vietnam national university hcmc 's dormitory , which was requisitioned as a centralized isolation center , must be resumed to its original state soon , as students are to return to school soon .
accordingly , agencies have to closely cooperate to set up additional quarantine facilities to assist with the city 's efforts to combat covid-19 , hung said .
to date , the city has reported 54 covid-19 infections , with 53 cases having recovered .
the remaining covid-19 case , confirmed as the 91st patient , is a british pilot who is under treatment at the hcmc hospital for tropical diseases .
vietnam reports two new covid-19 cases after eight days .
the ministry of health , april 24 , confirmed two new coronavirus cases after eight consecutive days without any new case reported .
up to now , vietnam has reported 270 coronavirus cases , with 245 of them having recovered .
two new cases are vietnamese students returning home from japan on april 21 .
the 269th patient is a 23-year-old man residing in viet yen district , bac giang province , while the 270th patient is a 22-year-old woman in yen dung district in the same province .
they were on the same flight with 160 other passengers residing in 32 cities and provinces .
all of them were transported to thai binh province for quarantine right after arriving at van don airport in quang ninh .
we took samples from the passengers for covid-19 testing on april 21 and two of them tested positive .
the two patients are now being treated at the national hospital for tropical diseases , said pham van diu , director of the thai binh province department of health .
forty-eight of the passengers are pregnant and seven are children , according to diu .
australian foreign minister condemns china 's disruptive actions .
australian foreign minister marise payne said thursday she was concerned about china 's disruptive activities in the east sea , including the sinking of a vietnamese boat .
australia was concerned over reported efforts to disrupt other countries ' resource development activities , the declaration of new 'administrative districts ' over disputed features , and the sinking of a vietnamese fishing boat , reportedly in a collision with a chinese coast guard vessel , by the sydney morning herald .
they were her first comments on the issue in the east sea , known internationally as the south china sea .
she said that australia had a strong interest in the stability of this crucial waterway and the norms and laws that govern it .
it is vital at this time that all parties refrain from destabilizing activities and work to ease tensions so the international community can devote full attention to responding cooperatively to the covid-19 pandemic , she said .
australian frigate hmas parramatta has joined three us warships for an exercise in the south china sea this week .
they arrived close to where the chinese government survey ship haiyang dizhi 8 has been operating , reuters reported .
the chinese vessel was spotted inside sea areas about 352 km away from bruneian and malaysian coasts by ship tracking website marine traffic on april 16 .
on april 14 , it had reportedly appeared at 158 km ( 98 miles ) off vietnam 's coast , within vietnam 's exclusive economic zone ( eez ) .
hcmc stops taking test samples at airport , railway stations .
having passed 16 days without a new patient being diagnosed with the novel coronavirus in hcmc , the city 's center for disease control and prevention today , april 23 , has stopped taking samples from arriving passengers at saigon railway station and tan son nhat international airport for covid-19 testing .
the city is still checking the body temperatures of people arriving at 62 checkpoints .
from april 4 to 22 , the city center took over 13,800 samples from travelers at the airport and some 5,600 samples from travelers at the railway station , the local media reported .
the test results of these samples , except for the sample of the 22nd case , who tested positive for the virus after being discharged from a hospital in danang city , came back negative for covid-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus , proving there was no risk of community spread .
nguyen tri dung , director of the city center , noted that the city is treating only two coronavirus patients at the moment , with one having tested negative for covid-19 three times and the other being the 91st case , a british pilot working for vietnam airlines .
the center is collaborating with the hcmc food safety management board to build a set of criteria to assess food safety and covid-19 infection prevention and control measures applicable to factories and companies , said dung .
covid-19 fraud .
hanoi cdc officials inflated test kit prices by $ 200,000 .
for now , most real-time prc machines are produced in germany and several other european countries , and cost between vnd 2.5 billion and vnd 10 billion each , depending on their capacity and configuration .
cam , the hanoi cdc director , and six other suspects in the case were arrested wednesday .
police said the cdc officials had conspired to cheat and raise the price of a bidding package for the real-time pcr system .
cam is under investigation along with nguyen vu ha thanh , head of the agency 's financial accounting department .
le xuan tuan , an employee of the department .
dao the vinh , director of the vietnam scientific and material science company limited .
nguyen tran duy , director of the nhan thanh property valuation and auction company .
nguyen ngoc nhat , an employee of the vitech development company limited .
and nguyen thanh tuyen , an employee of the eastern medical equipment company .
they will be probed on charges of violating bidding regulations causing serious consequences , an offence that can fetch jail terms of up to 20 years .
the hanoi cdc has been in charge of covid-19 testing for the entire capital city , with 2,500-3,000 samples taken each day .
vinai research announces state-of-the-art face recognition technology .
vinai research , under vingroup , announced on april 20 that it has successfully developed state-of-the-art technology that allows users to use face recognition to unlock their devices without removing their face masks .
designed with the principles of deep learning , vinai 's face recognition technology enables phone cameras to identify users even if their faces are partially covered .
vinai said it is willing to share the technology free of charge with programs that contribute to coronavirus infection prevention and control .
bui hai hung , director of vinai research , noted that face masks are an essential item for people during the coronavirus pandemic .
however , the accuracy of existing facial recognition technologies can be reduced by more than 50 percent if users wear face masks .
by using vinai 's face recognition technology , people can easily unlock their phones without having to remove their masks , thus preventing the spread of the coronavirus .
vinai has also developed a solution that automatically monitors people wearing masks on cameras .
this solution will be helpful for organizations and companies when they resume operations after the pandemic .
vietnam rejects china 's sovereign claims in east sea .
the vietnamese ministry of foreign affairs said on april 23 that it has contacted the chinese side to reaffirm vietnam 's standpoint on east sea issues and reject china 's illegal sovereignty claims over the paracel and spratly archipelagoes .
china has recently stepped up its assertiveness and illegal expansion in the disputed waters .
after a chinese maritime surveillance vessel rammed into a vietnamese fishing boat while it was fishing near the paracel archipelago in early april , china announced on april 18 the establishment of xisha district on paracel archipelago and nansha district on spratly archipelago .
on april 19 , china officially published the names of 25 islands and reefs and 55 seafloor geographical entities , most of which are located on the two archipelagos .
china 's foreign ministry has also sent a diplomatic note to the united nations lodging stern representations in response to what it called vietnam 's illegal claims in the east sea .
it also threatened any attempt to deny china 's sovereignty there will be doomed to fail .
responding to inquiries about reactions of vietnam on china 's recent moves at a press meeting on april 23 , ngo toan thang , deputy spokesperson of the vietnamese ministry of foreign affairs , said vietnam has submitted a claim to the united nations to affirm its sovereignty over the paracel and spratly archipelagoes in accordance with international laws .
china 's recent expansions in the east sea go against the united nations convention on the law of the sea and seriously violate the sovereignty of vietnam .
vietnam has sufficient historical evidence and a legal foundation to assert its sovereignty over the paracel and spratly archipelagoes , thang said .
earlier on april 19 , le thi thu hang , spokesperson of vietnam 's foreign ministry , said vietnam strongly protests china 's establishment ofxisha and nansha districts and put them under the jurisdiction of sansha city .
china 's establishment of the so-called sansha city and related acts are invalid and unrecognized , and they are detrimental to the friendship between countries and will further complicate the situation in the east sea , the region and the world , hang said .
vietnam passes one week with zero new covid-19 cases .
vietnam reported no fresh covid-19 infections this morning , april 23 , marking a full week in which the country 's total number of coronavirus cases was kept unchanged at 268 .
of the total , 223 patients have made a full recovery and been discharged from hospital , according to the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control .
among the 45 cases under treatment at eight medical centers , 11 patients have tested negative once or twice for the virus , the local media reported .
meanwhile , the three critically ill patients , including the 19th and 161st receiving treatment at the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district , hanoi city and the 91st under treatment at hcmc hospital for tropical diseases , have shown some health improvements .
despite the positive signal , residents should not be inattentive and should continue to strictly follow covid-19 infection prevention and control measures , including wearing face masks , avoiding mass gatherings and standing apart from one another , said associate professor dr tran dac phu , former head of the general department of preventive medicine .
germany makes face masks compulsory in public .
germany 's federal states on wednesday announced new measures in fight against the coronavirus , making it mandatory to wear cloth masks while shopping and in public transport , starting from april 27 .
germany 's most populous state of north rhine-westphalia announced that all citizens will be required to cover their nose and mouth with a cloth mask , in shops and public transport .
north rhine-westphalia 's premier armin laschet told reporters that they have taken the decision together with federal states rheinland-palatinate and saarland , and these states will coordinate the implementation of the new measures .
germany 's eastern state of saxony was the first federal state to make wearing masks mandatory , and the regulation which came into effect on monday , will remain in place until at least on may 3 .
saxony 's social affairs minister petra koepping urged citizens to cover their nose and mouth with a scarf , bandana or any other clothing if there 's no other alternative .
in germany 's capital berlin , and other largest cities including hamburg , frankfurt and munich , people will be required to wear cloth masks while shopping and in public transport , beginning from next monday .
the german government announced last week that it managed to bring covid-19 health emergency under control and partially relaxed strict lockdown measures , allowing small shops to reopen .
but chancellor angela merkel also warned against complacency and urged citizens to closely follow social distancing measures to prevent a new wave of infection .
germany has the fifth-highest tally of reported covid-19 infections in the world , ranking behind the us , spain , italy , and france .
but its death toll remains far lower than other hard-hit countries .
besides widespread coronavirus testing , contact tracing , and case isolation , germany has also significantly raised the bed capacity of intensive care units in hospitals .
as of wednesday , hospitals across the country had more than 12,600 free intensive care beds for coronavirus patients .
after being first detected in china late last year , the virus has spread to 185 countries and regions .
it has killed nearly 180,000 people and infected almost 2.6 million , while more than 696,900 have recovered , according to the us-based johns hopkins university .
hanoi cdc chief arrested for graft in coronavirus test kit purchase .
the director of the hanoi center for disease control and six others have been arrested for suspected corruption related to covid-19 test kit purchases .
the ministry of public security said on wednesday that nguyen nhat cam was taken in for violating regulations of the law on bidding causing serious consequences .
the cdc conspired to cheat and raise the price of a bidding package for covid-19 test kits utilizing realtime pcr systems .
nguyen vu ha thanh , head of the agency 's financial accounting department .
le xuan tuan , an employee of the department .
dao the vinh , director of the vietnam scientific and material science company limited .
nguyen tran duy , director of the nhan thanh property valuation and auction company .
nguyen ngoc nhat , an employee of the vitech development company limited .
and nguyen thanh tuyen , an employee of the eastern medical equipment company , face the same charges .
the cdc , nhan thanh , the vietnam scientific and material science company limited , and several other entities are involved in the case , according to the public security ministry .
cam has been the director of the hanoi center for preventative medicine since 2013 and took over at the hanoi cdc in 2018 .
the cdc is in charge of preventing outbreaks and infectious diseases in the capital .
it has collaborated with local authorities to disinfect areas with potential coronavirus infection and to investigate new infections .
it is also in charge of covid-19 testing in the capital , and has been testing 2,500-3,000 people a day .
hanoi cdc chief arrested for graft in coronavirus test kit purchase .
the director of the hanoi center for disease control and six others have been arrested for suspected corruption related to covid-19 test kit purchases .
the ministry of public security said on wednesday that nguyen nhat cam was taken in for violating regulations of the law on bidding causing serious consequences .
the cdc conspired to cheat and raise the price of a bidding package for covid-19 test kits utilizing realtime pcr systems .
nguyen vu ha thanh , head of the agency 's financial accounting department .
le xuan tuan , an employee of the department .
dao the vinh , director of the vietnam scientific and material science company limited .
nguyen tran duy , director of the nhan thanh property valuation and auction company .
nguyen ngoc nhat , an employee of the vitech development company limited .
and nguyen thanh tuyen , an employee of the eastern medical equipment company , face the same charges .
the cdc , nhan thanh , the vietnam scientific and material science company limited , and several other entities are involved in the case , according to the public security ministry .
cam has been the director of the hanoi center for preventative medicine since 2013 and took over at the hanoi cdc in 2018 .
the cdc is in charge of preventing outbreaks and infectious diseases in the capital .
it has collaborated with local authorities to disinfect areas with potential coronavirus infection and to investigate new infections .
it is also in charge of covid-19 testing in the capital , and has been testing 2,500-3,000 people a day .
despite coronavirus fears , indonesia 's aceh holds public floggings .
six people were publicly flogged in indonesia 's conservative aceh province on tuesday for breaking local islamic law , despite widespread bans on mass gatherings over coronavirus fears .
officials insisted they followed social distancing rules but vowed that the global pandemic would n't stand in the way of doling out justice .
most of the offenders whipped on tuesday were not wearing protective face masks , and images from the scene suggested some participants came into close contact with each other .
aceh 's public whippings – widely criticised by rights groups – can attract hundreds of spectators .
but only about a dozen onlookers turned up at a building inside a public park to see four men flogged 40 times each for drinking alcohol .
an unmarried couple caught together in a hotel room were also given over two dozen lashes from a rattan cane .
aceh , on the western tip of sumatra is the only region in muslim-majority indonesia to impose islamic law .
the province allows whipping for gambling , adultery , drinking alcohol , and having gay or pre-marital sex .
japan 's nagasaki confirms 33 coronavirus cases on cruise ship docked for repairs .
japan 's nagasaki prefecture said on wednesday it had confirmed 33 cases of coronavirus infection on an italian cruise ship docked for repairs and would carry out further testing on other crew members .
those who test positive but are asymptomatic will remain on board for monitoring , while others will be transferred to medical institutions , nagasaki governor hodo nakamura told a news conference .
those who test negative will be sent back to their countries , he said .
the ship , the costa atlantica , is carrying 623 crew members and no passengers , local media reported .
vietnam 's covid-19 test kits meet european standards .
vietnam-made covid-19 test kits have been certified as meeting european standards by the united kingdom 's department of health and social care , reported the government news website .
phan quoc viet , general director of viet a technologies jsc , said that the uk department has issued a ce certificate and a certificate of free sale for the test kits , which are being manufactured by the firm in collaboration with the vietnam military medical academy .
even though the uk left the european union on january 31 , the european pharmaceutical law is still being applied by britain until december 31 .
under eu regulations , if any eu member grants a ce to any product , that product can be sold in europe .
as such , the covid-19 test kits manufactured in vietnam can be sold in all eu member countries , including britain .
following the kits ' certification by the uk , some partners have registered to buy and exclusively distribute them to britain , india , mexico , the united states and some countries in europe .
earlier in march , as many as 20 countries made deals to purchase vietnam 's covid-19 test kits .
in the initial stage , viet a company will export the product to iran , finland , malaysia and ukraine .
iran has registered to buy 4,000 test kits , while ukraine has placed an order of 300 test kits .
viet a company can turn out 10,000 test kits per day .
it can triple production to meet the demand from the local market and for export or international support .
vietnam 's recovered covid-19 cases rise to 222 .
six more recovered covid-19 patients will be discharged from hospital this afternoon , april 22 , taking the country 's total number of recoveries to 222 , accounting for 83 percent of all people diagnosed with the virus , according to the national hospital for tropical diseases .
they are the 184th , 125th , 216th , 227th , 246th and 266th cases , who were sent to the hanoi-based hospital from march 28 to april 14 .
among the six , two had returned to vietnam from germany and russia through noi bai international airport .
the three women and three men are no longer presenting symptoms of fever , cough and shortness of breath , the local media reported .
the six patients , whose test results came back negative twice or three times , will continue to self-isolate for another 14 days at home after being released from the hospital .
vietnam develops coronavirus contact tracing app .
bluezone , a bluetooth-based app that helps determine if a person has come into contact with a covid-19 patient , has got the vietnamese government 's approval .
the contract tracing app was developed by technology firm bkav and the ministry of information and communications was briefed about it in mid-april .
the app uses bluetooth low energy , a wireless personal area network technology , to link with smartphones within a two-meter distance .
it will notify its users if they came within two meters of a covid-19 patient in the past 14 days .
when there is a new case of covid-19 , health authorities will enter the patient 's information into a system that will send that data to smartphones installed with bluezone to track the patient 's history in the previous 14 days .
the app alerts users if they are at risk of infection and instructs them to contact health authorities .
the ministry and the ministry of health have backed the development of bluezone and encourage people to use it to protect themselves .
both believe the app will be effective in controlling an outbreak , especially as people gradually return to normal life soon .
the application will be available on the app store and google play in the next few days .
now users can download the app at bluezone.vn .
with vietnam reporting no new covid-19 cases for five days as of tuesday , its infection tally has remained at 268 .
there have been no deaths in the country and only 53 people are in hospital .
lam moved to muangthong in early 2019 from hai phong fc for a transfer fee of $ 300,000 and a salary of $ 11,000 per month .
his contract expires in november 2021 .
two possible replacements for lam are viettel fc 's tran nguyen manh and nguyen tuan manh .
the vff also said it is trying its best to help vietnamese-czech keeper filip nguyen get vietnamese citizenship soon so that coach park hang-seo has more options .
lam was in superb form during the 2022 world cup qualifiers , letting in only one goal in five games and helping vietnam top the table .
in the 2018 aff cup that vietnam won , he was named in the team of the tournament after conceding only four goals in eight matches .
six new coronaviruses found in bats in myanmar .
scientists from the smithsonian 's global health program take samples from a bumble bee bat in myanmar .
researchers have discovered six new coronaviruses in bats while studying how diseases can pass from animals to humans .
the scientists said the coronaviruses – found in bats in myanmar – are not closely related to the coronavirus now affecting many parts of the world .
the research was led by scientists from the smithsonian 's global health program in washington , d.c .
the findings were recently reported in a study in the publication plos one .
the researchers said the six new coronaviruses have never been discovered anywhere in the world .
the us centers for disease control and prevention ( cdc ) says that coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in people and many different species of animals .
the cdc adds that it is rare for animal coronaviruses to infect people and then spread among the human population .
however , there have been major disease outbreaks caused by coronaviruses in humans .
bats have been linked to some of them .
the viruses responsible for diseases sars and mers were linked to bats .
the cdc says the new coronavirus , which causes the disease covid-19 , also came from bats .
health experts estimate that thousands of coronaviruses are present in bats , with many still undiscovered .
the smithsonian team worked with researchers in myanmar on a project aimed at identifying new diseases that are zoonotic –meaning they can spread from animals to humans .
the project , called predict , is supported by the us agency for international development ( usaid ) .
researchers working on the project say zoonotic diseases represent about 75 percent of new diseases affecting humans .
one of their goals is to study how contact between humans and wildlife can lead to coronavirus infections in people .
health officials inspect bats to be confiscated and culled in the wake of coronavirus outbreak at a live animal market in solo , central java , indonesia , saturday , march 14 , 2020 .
the team centered its research in areas where humans were most likely to come into close contact with local wildlife .
among the team members were representatives from myanmar government agencies .
the researchers collected 759 samples of saliva and waste from bats in the areas from may 2016 to august 2018 .
after examining the samples , they identified the six new kinds of coronavirus .
the team also discovered a coronavirus found in other parts of southeast asia , but never before in myanmar .
marc valitutto is a former wildlife veterinarian with the smithsonian 's global health program .
he was the lead writer of the study .
he said in a statement that widespread disease outbreaks like covid-19 should remind us how closely human health is connected to the health of wildlife and the environment .
the goal is to prevent the virus from getting into humans in the first place , valitutto told smithsonian magazine .
he added that future research will seek to learn more about how coronaviruses behave in animals .
for example , what permits the viruses to mutate and spread to other species .
such research can help reduce the possibility of future pandemics , valitutto said .
suzan murray is the director of the smithsonian 's global health program .
she said many coronaviruses do not present risks to humans .
however , she noted identifying them early on in animals can be an effective way to investigate possible disease threats .
vigilant surveillance , research and education are the best tools we have to prevent pandemics before they occur , murray said .
donald trump says he will suspend all immigration to the us to fight coronavirus .
donald trump has announced that he will sign a temporary order to ban all immigration to the united states to fight the coronavirus pandemic .
the us president revealed the move on twitter , claiming that he will use the executive power of the presidency to close america 's borders .
in light of the attack from the invisible enemy , as well as the need to protect the jobs of our great american citizens , i will be signing an executive order to temporarily suspend immigration into the united states !
the us president offered no details as to what immigration policies might be affected by the order .
due to the pandemic , almost all visa processing by the state department , including immigrant visas , has been suspended for weeks .
more than 750,000 americans have been infected with covid-19 and more than 42,000 have died .
the move effectively achieves one of mr trump 's long-term policy goals of curbing immigration , making use of the health and economic crisis that has swept the country as a result of the pandemic to do so .
the decision drew swift condemnation from democrats .
vietnam enters fifth straight day with no new covid-19 cases .
vietnam reported no new infection tuesday morning , keeping the nation 's covid-19 tally unchanged for the fifth day in a row .
the national infection total has stayed at 268 since last thursday morning , and 215 have been discharged from hospitals , including 12 on monday .
the extended social distancing campaign in hanoi , ho chi minh city , and ten other localities , lao cai , quang ninh , bac ninh , ninh binh in the north .
da nang , quang nam , binh thuan , khanh hoa , ha tinh in the central region and tay ninh in the south is going to end wednesday .
american scientists are evaluating the impact of bcg .
if it proves effective , it will be tested on 4,000 health workers .
in the netherlands , 400 frontline doctors have been vaccinated for the experiment .
a similar study has begun in australia .
however , there have been cases of the vaccine causing complications in adults .
nhung warned that people should not inject the vaccine at home .
if you rely on vaccines but do not strictly implement preventive measures recommended by the ministry of health including wearing masks , regularly disinfecting hands , social distancing ..
then there will be outbreaks with devastating outcomes .
of vietnam 's total of 268 covid-19 cases , 215 have been discharged .
the country has gone five days now without a new infection .
vietnam protests china 's establishment of sansha city .
vietnam has strongly protested china 's establishment of sansha city and related illegal acts that seriously violate vietnam 's sovereignty , le thi thu hang , spokesperson of vietnam 's foreign ministry , said on april 19 .
on april 18 , china announced through china global television network the establishment of the xisha district on vietnam 's hoang sa ( paracel ) archipelago and nansha district on vietnam 's truong sa ( spratly ) archipelago .
the two districts will reportedly be under the jurisdiction of sansha city .
according to china global television network , sansha city will have a population of 1,800 .
the headquarters of xisha district will be located on phu lam island of hoang sa archipelago , while nansha district will be headquartered on the chu thap reef of truong sa archipelago .
hang stated that vietnam has repeatedly presented sufficient historical evidence and a legal foundation to assert its sovereignty over the hoang sa and truong sa archipelagos .
china 's establishment of the so-called sansha city and related acts are invalid and unrecognized , and they are detrimental to the friendship between countries and will further complicate the situation in the east sea , the region and the world , hang remarked .
the real estate consultancy said in a recent statement that multinational manufacturers have been setting up operations in vietnam for a number of years and this trend is poised to strengthened .
this movement has accelerated over the past 12-24 months , with companies looking to diversify their operations and supply chains due to tariffs on goods exported from china to the united states .
stephen wyatt , country head at jll vietnam , noted that vietnam remains a promising market , with a growing trend during the past few years of manufacturing companies looking to set up operations in the country .
industrial park developers remain confident that demand for land will continue to grow and , therefore , land prices are expected to increase , in line with the long-term potential of vietnam 's industrial segment , wyatt said .
companies looking to diversify their manufacturing portfolios outside china are attracted to vietnam , thanks to its proximity to china , free trade agreements and the government 's plans to develop vietnam into a manufacturing hub for southeast asia , according to jll 's latest market report .
also , the report noted that the average price of land in northern vietnam reached us $ 99 per square meter per lease term , up 6.5 percent year-on-year in the first quarter of 2020 .
meanwhile , the figure for the southern region was us $ 101 , a year-on-year increase of 12.2 percent , compared with the fourth quarter of 2019 .
in addition , ready-built factories recorded an average price of us $ 3.5-5 per square meter per month in both regions .
man arrested for making fake facebook claims on covid-19 deaths in vietnam .
nguyen hoai nam is held at a police station in vinh town , nghe an province in central vietnam for posting fake news on covid-19 deaths , april 18 , 2020 .
police in the central province of nghe an detained a man last saturday for posting false claims on facebook about covid-19 deaths in vietnam and a government cover-up .
nguyen hoai nam , 44 , admitted to the police that he posted the false information and threatened local authorities to attract attention on social media .
he faces charges of illegally posting or using information on computer networks and telecommunication networks , an offense that carries a maximum prison term of seven years .
investigators said he made the claim several times on his facebook page between april 13 and 18 that vietnam had seen its first deaths due to covid-19 .
vietnam has recorded three covid-19 deaths and the government is concealing this , he wrote .
he also insulted local police and other authorities and threatened to stab them if they came to his house .
since the pandemic broke out in late january , authorities have slapped fines of up to 15 million ( $ 427- 641 ) on hundreds of individuals for posting fake news .
a man in the central highlands province of lam dong is being investigated for posting false information on his facebook page that da lat has recorded three infections , with one patient dying .
vietnam has recorded no new cases for the last four days .
of the 268 patients diagnosed so far , only 64 are still in hospital after the remaining 204 were discharged .
no dealths have been recorded to date .
the pandemic has spread to 210 countries and territories , with more than 165,000 deaths recorded so far .
74 percent of vietnam 's covid-19 cases recover .
twenty-one more coronavirus patients were discharged from hospital today , april 17 , taking vietnam 's total number of recovered cases to 198 , making up 74 percent of the country 's infection tally , according to the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control .
the national hospital for tropical diseases in hanoi city declared 17 cases free of covid-19 , the disease caused by the novel coronavirus , the local media reported .
among the 17 cases , three are employees of truong sinh company , which provided catering services for bach mai hospital , one of the country 's largest coronavirus clusters .
74 percent of vietnam 's covid-19 cases recover .
twenty-one more coronavirus patients were discharged from hospital today , april 17 , taking vietnam 's total number of recovered cases to 198 , making up 74 percent of the country 's infection tally , according to the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control .
the national hospital for tropical diseases in hanoi city declared 17 cases free of covid-19 , the disease caused by the novel coronavirus , the local media reported .
among the 17 cases , three are employees of truong sinh company , which provided catering services for bach mai hospital , one of the country 's largest coronavirus clusters .
vietnam sees covid-19 abate .
vietnam has reported no new cases of coronavirus over the past 36 hours , the longest time span without new patients since march 7 , keeping the country 's total confirmed cases unchanged at 268 as of 6.00 p.m .
today , april 17 , according to the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control .
no covid-19 fatalities have been reported so far .
three hospitals in hanoi city , the mekong delta province of tra vinh and the northern province of ninh binh discharged a total of 21 coronavirus patients who have made a full recovery today , the local media reported .
as the coronavirus pandemic is expected to continue , the public should practice precautionary measures to remain healthy and safe amid this public health crisis , said deputy prime minister vu duc dam at a recent meeting .
vietnam has entered the third stage of preventing and controlling the spread of the new coronavirus , with three critical missions to be carried out .
remain fully alert to the disease .
make preparations to live with the pandemic .
and step up positive adjustments in society , thanh nien newspaper reported .
all of the efforts to prevent the spread of the disease , as well as to detect and isolate areas having a possible risk of being struck by the virus , and to provide medical treatment for covid-19 patients , must ensure the full compliance with the government 's directives , he said during the meeting of the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control on april 17 .
facebook ads creator omits east sea islands in vietnam 's map .
in 2018 , facebook wrongly displayed the hoang sa ( paracel ) and truong sa ( spratly ) archipelagos as part of china in its ad creation section .
it fixed the error later , saying it was a technical issue .
vietnam 's spratly and paracel islands are not displayed on the nation 's map in a facebook function that helps users create their own ads .
as of wednesday night , several users said they could not find the hoang sa ( paracel ) and truong sa ( spratly ) archipelagos when they chose vietnam as the target region in an ad creating function on facebook .
but when the target region was china , the islands showed up .
facebook has said that the islands ' disappearance from vietnam 's map was caused by an error when the map was updated , said le quang tu do , deputy director general of the authority of broadcasting , television and electronic information under the ministry of information and communications .
a facebook representative said thursday afternoon that the error has been fixed .
we are sorry for any confusion caused , the spokesperson said .
the islands now can not be found when users choose either vietnam or china as the target region .
facebook maintains neutral standpoint in disputed areas or other sensitive geographical zones , the representative said .
the map section used for facebook 's ad creation function is sourced from openstreetmap , an open-data , editable map project based in the u.k .
the facebook representative in vietnam is yet to comment on the matter .
previously , in 2018 , facebook had also wrongly displayed the archipelagos as part of china in its ad creation section .
it fixed the error later , saying it was a technical issue .
vietnam has consistently affirmed that it has full legal basis and historical evidence to assert its sovereignty over the paracel and spratly islands .
china seized the paracel islands from south vietnam by force in 1974 , and has been illegally occupying a number of reefs in the spratly islands since 1988 .
bamboo airways denies sale of shares to chinese investors .
bamboo airways , a subsidiary of property developer flc group , has rejected rumors being circulated on the internet that it has sold 49 percent of its stake to chinese investors , reported thanh nien newspaper .
according to bamboo airways , some facebook users have shared information from an unverified website stating that the airline had sold the stake to chinese investors that may help china manipulate vietnam 's airspace .
in response , the carrier confirmed that it has no chinese investors and none of its shareholders have received funding from chinese investors .
the legal department at bamboo airways has submitted evidence supporting its position to the competent agencies to help the carrier address the fake news .
also , the website has been identified on vietnam 's mainstream media platforms as a source of fake and anti-state news , noted the carrier .
earlier , flc group in its 2019 financial report stated that its current ownership in bamboo airways is now 52.1 percent , down from 100 percent .
however , both flc and bamboo airways have yet to release official information on the investors who purchased the 47.9 percent stake in the carrier .
american man faces deportation for falsely claiming covid-19 infection .
an american in northern port city of hai phong faces deportation after falsely claiming he was covid-19 positive , authorities said wednesday .
au joseph elhayboubi , 32 , had entered vietnam last october , and his visa allowed him to stay until january 25 .
previously , since may 2018 , he had tried several times to enter vietnam for traveling and working in foreign language centers , but failed .
after entering vietnam , he traveled to several localities and applied for jobs .
he came to hai phong in january and applied for a job at a local english center , but failed .
he left and visited several other places before returning to the northern city on march 22 .
he then reported to authorities that he had covid-19 .
he was taken to the viet tiep hospital to be monitored .
elhayboubi later tested negative for the novel coronavirus .
police said it was likely that he did not have enough money and could n't return to the us .
as international flights in vietnam are currently suspended under covid-19 prevention policies .
he came up with the covid-19 ploy so he would be provided accommodation and food in vietnam , they said .
elhayboubi finished his quarantine period on april 3 .
for that , i propose that the government should work on a strategy of gradually tightening restrictions and firming up regulations so that we can finally achieve victory .
he said the city has the epidemic under control with no new cases in the last eight days and only five in the last 15 , 88 percent less than in the previous 15 days .
this was thanks to the social distancing campaign between april 1 and 15 , the early response by the city as well as its drastic moves to infected areas and public awareness of the need to follow the rules , he said .
but the disease remains unpredictable , he said .
phong warned , if we loosen the rules , we could lose the battle .
so far city officials have fined over 5,000 people vnd 100,000-300,000 ( $ 4.26-12.78 ) for not wearing a face masks in public .
vietnam has one more covid-19 case this morning .
a 16-year-old girl who lives in the northern mountainous province of ha giang has tested positive for the coronavirus , taking the nation 's total number of confirmed cases to 268 this morning , april 16 .
the patient , whose three elder brothers work in china , developed fever , cough and shortness of breath on april 7 .
as such , she was quarantined at dong van general hospital in the province and her test results came back positive for covid-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus , according to the ministry of health .
the 268th patient is being treated at the hospital .
this was the first case reported in ha giang province .
as of this morning , of 268 covid-19 cases in the country , 171 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospital .
hcmc , hanoi extend social distancing to april 22 .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc agreed to extend social distancing in hcmc , hanoi and 10 other localities that are at high risk of coronavirus upsurge until april 22 at a meeting this afternoon , april 15 .
earlier this morning , the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control proposed extending the social distancing period according to the status of coronavirus infections in each locality .
localities at high risk are hanoi , lao cai , quang ninh , bac ninh , ninh binh , danang , quang nam , binh thuan , khanh hoa , hcmc , tay ninh and ha tinh .
localities at medium risk are binh duong , can tho , dong nai , ha nam , haiphong , kien giang , nam dinh , nghe an , thai nguyen , thua thien-hue , soc trang , lang son , an giang , binh phuoc and dong thap .
the remaining cities and provinces are classified as localities at low risk .
for localities at medium and low risk , the committee proposed issuing specific regulations for trading and manufacturing activities to ensure both economic stability and safety for the people .
people in these localities should continue to comply with preventive measures such as washing their hands regularly , staying at least 2 meters apart and always wearing face masks in public .
these localities should also continue to ban large public gatherings , including religious events , and leisure activities .
restrict travel .
and close tourist sites .
the ministry of health will work with the ministry of transport to issue further travel and transport restrictions based on the needs of each locality .
the committee 's classification of low , medium and high risk localities is based on the localities ' traffic intensity , population , number of industrial zones and other criteria , according to the vietnam news agency .
hcmc , hanoi extend social distancing to april 22 .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc agreed to extend social distancing in hcmc , hanoi and 10 other localities that are at high risk of coronavirus upsurge until april 22 at a meeting this afternoon , april 15 .
earlier this morning , the national steering committee for covid-19 infection prevention and control proposed extending the social distancing period according to the status of coronavirus infections in each locality .
localities at high risk are hanoi , lao cai , quang ninh , bac ninh , ninh binh , danang , quang nam , binh thuan , khanh hoa , hcmc , tay ninh and ha tinh .
localities at medium risk are binh duong , can tho , dong nai , ha nam , haiphong , kien giang , nam dinh , nghe an , thai nguyen , thua thien-hue , soc trang , lang son , an giang , binh phuoc and dong thap .
the remaining cities and provinces are classified as localities at low risk .
for localities at medium and low risk , the committee proposed issuing specific regulations for trading and manufacturing activities to ensure both economic stability and safety for the people .
people in these localities should continue to comply with preventive measures such as washing their hands regularly , staying at least 2 meters apart and always wearing face masks in public .
these localities should also continue to ban large public gatherings , including religious events , and leisure activities .
restrict travel .
and close tourist sites .
the ministry of health will work with the ministry of transport to issue further travel and transport restrictions based on the needs of each locality .
the committee 's classification of low- , medium- and high-risk localities is based on the localities ' traffic intensity , population , number of industrial zones and other criteria , according to the vietnam news agency .
zero supermarket ' provides hanoians infinite joy .
on the morning of april 14 , many hanoians queued in front of a supermarket on tran duy hung street of hanoi 's cau giay district .
selling everything for zero dong , the store , named hanh phuc ( happiness ) allows customers to choose five items not exceeding vnd 100,000 ( $ 4.3 ) .
at the entrance , customers stood two meters apart , filled in a form , and waited to shop with the support of staff .
if you are in difficulty , please take what you need .
if not , please leave some goods for others , read a sign in front of the supermarket .
operated by an enterprise , the zero supermarket is one of many opened in the northern provinces of lang son , bac giang , bac ninh , hai duong , thai nguyen , as well as central thua thien hue and phu yen provinces .
this chain will remain open until the covid-19 pandemic is contained .
each shopper must fill in a form before shopping .
after two weeks , they can return to receive more food .
according to nguyen minh trang , coordinator at the zero supermarket , said her company had spent nearly vnd 10 billion ( $ 42,688 ) to stock the eight stores .
the supermarket opens from 8 a.m to 5 p.m , from monday to thursday .
on the morning of april 14 , up to 400 people received food here .
one more covid-19 case confirmed in hanoi .
the ministry of health reported one new coronavirus patient linked to the ha loi hamlet cluster , raising the country 's total number of confirmed cases to 267 as of this morning , april 15 .
the 46-year-old man , who lives in ha loi hamlet in hanoi city 's me linh district , is the father of the 257th patient and the husband of the 258th .
he came into close contact with the 243rd carrier at his home on march 20 .
on april 8 , the 267th patient was sent to a concentrated quarantine center in hanoi city .
he developed symptoms of fever , fatigue and sore throat on april 13 .
his positive test results came out on april 14 .
the patient is being treated at the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district .
ha loi hamlet has become the country 's newest hotspot for covid-19 , the disease caused by the novel coronavirus , with 13 cases , the local media reported .
as of this morning , of 267 covid-19 cases in the country , 169 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospital , according to the health ministry .
huế , đà nẵng set up free rice atms .
donors in the central city of huế have set up a 'rice atm ' in the city to help underprivileged people that have been impacted by the covid-19 pandemic .
volunteers at colleges in the city set up the first site at the phú xuân private college at 28 nguyễn tri phương street on saturday to give 2kg of free rice for each person .
they said donors have been supplying free rice to poor local residents at several sites in the city to avoid large crowds gathering .
donors in thừa thiên-huế province also collected 4,000 face masks , 1,000 hand sanitiser bottles and 4 tonnes of rice to hand over to two provinces – salavan and sekong in laos – to support the fight against covid-19 .
the đà nẵng city 's young businessmen association also said it would set up two free rice atms to help poor people in đà nẵng from next week .
chairman of the association hà đức hùng said the first atm would be installed at trưng nữ vương street in downtown hải châu district before being spread to more locations in hòa vang , cẩm lệ , thanh khê and liên chiểu districts .
the association has collected 40 tonnes of rice from donors in the city , and there are plans to gather more .
he said the free rice atms would operate till the end of june .
earlier , free rice atms were installed in hcm city and hà nội to help poor people during covid-19 pandemic .
a charity in da nang has also presented 1,500 bottles of watermelon juice to doctors , nurses and medical workers at covid-19 frontline hospitals in đà nẵng .
the group said it had bought 1.5 tonnes of watermelon from farmers in quảng ngãi province to help clear overloaded stocks at farms .
covid-19 special .
discharged british man tests positive again .
patient 22 , a british man discharged from da nang march 27 has tested positive again , putting hcmc on guard .
he had come into contact with dozens of people in hcmc before leaving the country , local officials said .
authorities learnt of this special case sunday evening , nguyen tan binh , director of hcmc health department said at a monday afternoon meeting .
he said that the covid-19 illness might have recurred within the patient or he might have got infected again after he was discharged from the hospital in da nang .
from now on , visitors to ho chi minh city must be closely monitored , binh said .
reports had said that female patient 50 , a 24-year-old vietnamese woman being treated in the northern quang ninh province , and patient 91 , a 43-year-old british man in hcmc , had also tested positive after negative results and they are still undergoing treatment .
meanwhile , a reuters report monday said at least 116 people initially cleared of the novel coronavirus had tested positive again in south korea .
hcmc shuts biggest employer to contain new coronavirus .
footwear maker pouyuen vietnam was ordered to halt operations for two days starting tuesday due to covid-19 safety concerns .
the order came after hcmc health authorities inspected the taiwan-invested company on saturday and found some employees without masks and a large number ignoring social distancing rules .
the city had on april 6 inspected pouyuen 's premises and found the novel coronavirus infection risk indicator to be 81 percent , while municipal regulations stipulate companies with an indicator over 80 percent must be closed temporarily .
hcmc had asked prime ministerial permission to suspend company operations , but deputy prime minister vu duc dam held it could decide for itself .
pouyuen would resume operations thursday as vietnam prepares to exit its social distancing campaign wednesday .
the company is the largest employer in hcmc with almost 70,000 workers covering three shifts and employs over 800 vehicles for transportation each day .
local officials said if an outbreak occurs at pouyuen , the consequences would be severe because covid-19 could spread to nearby businesses and hcmc 's four neighboring provinces of long an , tien giang , ben tre , and tay ninh .
hcmc is home to 450,000 companies with 3.8 million employees .
the city stands second after hanoi in the number of covid-19 cases at 54 , of whom 40 have been discharged .
hanoi now has 127 cases and 59 discharges .
coronavirus cases edge up to 265 .
the ministry of health today , april 13 , announced three new coronavirus cases , taking to 265 to the country 's total number of confirmed cases .
two of the new cases were detected in ha loi commune , the newest cluster of coronavirus infection in me linh district , hanoi .
the 263rd case is a 45-year-old woman residing in the commune .
she had had symptoms of covid-19 , including fever , sore throat , cough , and tiredness , since march 25 .
the commune 's second case is a 24-year-old woman .
her samples were taken for coronavirus testing on april 11 .
both of them are receiving treatment at the national hospital for tropical diseases in hanoi .
a 265th patient is a 26-year-old man residing in the north-central province of ha tinh .
he returned to vietnam from thailand through cha lo border gate in quang binh province on march 23 .
he was put under quarantine upon arrival in vietnam and tested for coronavirus on april 12 .
the patient is being hospitalized at cau treo hospital in ha tinh province .
up to now , 145 of the 265 covid-19 patients in vietnam have recovered and been released from hospitals , including one patient discharged today .
colombian man caught after escaping covid-19 quarantine in hoi an .
leyson smith santamaria orjuela , 22 , who has been caught monday after escaping from quarantine in hoi an in quang nam province , central vietnam .
the colombian man who escaped from a covid-19 quarantine facility in quang nam saturday was caught early monday .
leyson smith santamaria orjuela had escaped from the quarantine facility in the central province just a day after he was taken there .
he had overstayed his temporary visa in vietnam since february 22 , said the quang nam steering committee on the prevention and control of covid-19 .
he was found by authorities and taken to a quarantine zone at a resort in hoi an on april 10 , the committee said .
he later tested negative for the novel coronavirus .
however , orjuelawas found to have fled from the resort at around 7 p.m saturday .
he was found again by authorities in quang nam 's nui thanh .
in the central province , around 157 people are currently isolated in medical facilities and around 5,000 in their homes .
globally , the pandemic has spread to 210 countries and territories and death toll has risen to more than 114,200 .
samsung factory quarantined after worker tests covid-19 positive .
authorities in bac ninh province have isolated a samsung electronics vietnam factory and quarantined dozens of employees after one tested covid-19 positive .
nguyen huong giang , chairwoman of the northern province , said 106 people , all factory employees , had come into close contact with patient 262 , a resident of hanoi 's ha loi village who was confirmed infected with the novel coronavirus on monday morning .
of the 106 , 42 have been sent to a centralized quarantine facility while the rest are being monitored further .
patient 262 , who works in the quality control department of the factory that produces tv screens , traveled by different company buses every day , so the number of contact people involved was large , giang said .
the 26-year-old man did n't develop signs of covid-19 infection at the factory but at home in ha loi village in hanoi 's me linh district .
he was quarantined on april 6 .
he had come into close contact with his infected uncle , patient 254 , a resident of ha loi , on march 27 and developed symptoms of cough and fever three days later .
ha loi is now under lockdown with 10 residents confirmed infected with covid-19 .
samsung 's infected worker is being treated at the national hospital of tropical diseases in hanoi 's dong anh district .
on monday , the entire factory where patient 262 works , including 20 other employees , were placed under medical quarantine .
other plants in the province are operating normally .
on sunday night , medical staff disinfected the entire workshop where the infected worker works as well as the buses to prevent the virus from spreading further , giang said .
a representative of samsung factory in bac ninh said the company has three independent factories that produce screens , batteries , and mobile phones .
samsung , the world 's biggest smartphone maker , is the largest fdi firm in vietnam , employing around 160,000 people .
samsung electronics accounts for a quarter of vietnam 's exports , and the southeast asian country is south korea 's third-biggest export market , and the fifth-biggest source of south korea 's imports .
vietnam 's covid-19 count stands at 262 , with 144 discharged after recovery .
globally , the covid-19 's death toll has jumped to more than 114,000 as it attacked 210 countries and territories .
vietnamese german dies in munich of covid-19 .
a 58-year-old german man of vietnamese origin died last saturday of covid-19 , the vietnamese embassy in germany has confirmed .
nguyen duc son , 58 , who hails from the mekong delta province of ben tre , lives in munich and had contracted the virus from his wife .
the vietnamese embassy in frankfurt said he was probably the first person of vietnamese origin to die of the covid-19 disease in germany .
more than 96,000 vietnamese people lived in germany as of 2018 , making it the third biggest minority group in the country , according to data from germany 's federal statistics office .
earlier , two elderly vietnamese americans living in washington state nursing homes became the first overseas vietnamese deaths caused by covid-19 .
germany is one of the countries hit hardest by the covid-19 pandemic with nearly 128,000 infections and the death toll rising to 3,022 as of monday morning .
the german government imposed strict lockdown measures last month to stem the spread of the novel coronavirus , ordering all non-essential shops to close and banning any social contact among more than two people in public .
globally , the pandemic has spread to 210 countries and territories and death toll has risen to more than 114,000 .
vietnam cuts electricity price to ease covid-19 burden .
the proposal by the ministry of industry and trade aims to support citizens and businesses amid the covid-19 epidemic .
the ministry , however , would be gathering opinions from other ministries and sectors .
under the current proposal , a 10 percent reduction would be applied to electricity prices for households at tiers 1-4 ( electricity consumption below 300 kwh ) .
businesses would also receive a 10 percent discount during peak , normal and off-peak hours , while tourist accommodation would be entitled to the same electricity prices as households and production firms .
establishments used for the concentrated quarantine or treatment of confirmed and suspected covid-19 patients would be exempted from paying electricity bills , while those that provide medical examinations , testing and treatment for confirmed and suspected covid-19 cases would receive a 20 percent discount in electricity prices .
hotels and tourist accommodation that has been used to quarantine confirmed and suspected covid-19 patients would also be entitled to a 20 percent price downgrade .
electricity price reductions would be applied to bills for electricity consumption in april , may , and june , or bills received in may , june , and july .
according to calculations , the total value of this support package for electricity consumers would be nearly vnd 11 trillion ( $ 470 million ) , of which the amount in electricity bills saved would be vnd 6.1 trillion ( $ 262.93 million ) for businesses , vnd 2.9 trillion ( $ 125 million ) for households , vnd 1.8 trillion ( $ 77.59 million ) for tourist accommodation and vnd 100 billion ( $ 4.3 million ) for establishments taking part in the fight against covid-19 .
vietnam has two more cases of covid-19 .
two residents of ha loi hamlet in hanoi city 's me linh district , the country 's newest coronavirus infection cluster , have tested positive for the virus , raising the nation 's total number of confirmed cases to 262 this morning , april 13 .
the two patients are being treated at the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district , hanoi city , the local media reported .
the 261st case , a 60-year-old woman , is the owner of a grocery store in ha loi hamlet , me linh district .
her positive test result came out on april 12 .
the other patient , the 262nd , is a 26-year-old male employee of samsung electronics vietnam in bac ninh province .
on march 27 , the patient had close contact with the 254th case , who is his uncle .
he developed symptoms of cough and fever on march 31 and tested positive for covid-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus , on april 12 .
the country had reported 10 cases of covid-19 linked to ha loi hamlet as of this morning , april 13 .
data from the ministry of health show that among the 262 confirmed cases , 144 cases have recovered and been discharged from hospital while the remaining 118 patients are under treatment at 14 local hospitals , with 38 of them having tested negative for the virus once or twice .
vietnam schools set to reopen in june after four-month break .
students can return to school by june 15 at the latest if the covid-19 epidemic remains under control , the ministry of education and training said friday .
nguyen huu do , deputy minister of education and training , said at a friday meeting that teachers will help students review lessons after they have studied online at home during the coronavirus-induced closures and complete the second semester and final examinations from june 15 to july 15 .
vietnam 's school year starts in august or september with two semesters and a normal semester lasts four months .
grade 12 students will have three weeks to review their lessons before the national high school examination which will take place from august 8-11 , do said .
the graduation exam has been pushed back two months from previous years with schools remaining closed for a long time .
vietnam 's national high school graduation exam is considered to be a make-or-break event for the students , determining if they can enter a good university or not .
if schools remain closed even on june 15 , the ministry will report the situation to the national assembly to reconsider rescheduling the national high school examination .
he also said the ministry has devised many measures to help students study online and via televised lessons .
it has also held conferences with teachers in localities to guide them on online teaching .
in mountainous areas like the northern province of ha giang , students do not have the opportunity to study online so teachers teach them in small groups so that their learning is not interrupted , he said .
22 million students in vietnam had completed the 20th week of school in the new academic year before they began a fortnight-long lunar new year holiday that started january 17 .
40 provinces and cities have extended school breaks until further notice , while schools in the remaining 23 localities have said school closures will last until mid-april .
hcmc authorities said friday that the city 's 1.7 million students can return to school mid-may , a month earlier than proposed by the education ministry for the entire country .
the rationale offered for the early reopening was that the city was handling the covid-19 spread well and has only used 3.5 percent of its total number of hospital beds .
quarantine barriers at bạch mai hospital removed .
when bạch mai hospital in hà nội was identified as a covid-19 hotspot , the authorities acted swiftly .
this huge medical facility on the edge of the capital 's city centre , which was founded in 1911 , is a lifeline for thousands of patients .
but after the case of coronavirus came to light all connected to the medical facility , a difficult decision was made to prevent covid-19 .
doctors , staff , and patients were locked in for two weeks , an example of the decisive actions taken by the authorities to stem the spread of the pandemic .
at the stroke of midnight sunday , those barriers were lifted , and life began to get back to normal at bạch mai after a list of regulations was completed by the facility .
prevention and control measures will continue to take place in the future .
local authorities read the decision to remove the quarantine barriers at bạch mai hospital .
medical staff and patients at bạch mai hospital wave hands in joy as the quarantine barriers are removed .
hanoi woman is vietnam 's covid-19 'patient 258 ' .
a 47-year-old woman who lives in hanoi 's ha loi village has tested covid-19 positive , taking the country 's tally to 258 .
patient 258 is the mother of patient 257 , a 15-year-old girl who was confirmed infected friday night .
the woman , whose samples were confirmed positive saturday , is being treated at the national hospital for tropical diseases in hanoi .
ha loi village in me linh district has recorded six covid-19 cases so far – patients 243 , 250 , 253 , 254 , 257 and 258 .
the whole village , with 2,711 households and 11,077 people , has been isolated and all residents are being tested for the novel coronavirus .
of vietnam 's 258 covid-19 infections so far , 144 have been discharged from hospitals .
the covid-19 pandemic has claimed 102,600 lives in 210 countries and territories .
hanoi to jail those spreading fake news on covid-19 .
hanoi police will launch criminal investigations that could lead to jail terms of up to seven years for those posting false covid-19 information .
the police department in the capital city said many people have made use of the complicated development of the covid-19 pandemic to spread false information on social media to generate likes , views , and shares .
this has sowed confusion among people and made it more difficult to take preventive action against the novel coronavirus , the department said .
to tighten control over the propagation of fake news , hanoi police will launch criminal investigations into suspects .
anyone posting fraudulent information on the covid-19 disease causing negative impacts on the public 's response will be investigated for illegally posting or using information on computer networks and telecommunication networks , an offense that carries a maximum prison term of seven years .
in case anyone spreads personal and private information or insults the dignity and honor of health workers on the frontline of the epidemic fight , as well as of patients and suspects , they will be investigated for insulting others and face a jail term of up to five years .
police and other hanoi authorities have called on residents to be more discerning about the information they receive , and follow official sources on the epidemic in vietnam .
ever since the covid-19 broke out in vietnam , police in hanoi have handled more than 70 cases of spreading fake news .
other localities have reported hundreds of such cases , too .
not a single person has faced criminal charges so far , though many have been fined vnd 10-15 million ( $ 427- 641 ) .
last month , vietnam 's supreme people 's court asked all civil and military courts across the country to apply article 240 in the 2015 penal code against those escaping quarantine and making false health declarations in the context of the country entering a critical stage in its covid-19 fight .
those making fraudulent medical declarations when returning to vietnam from covid-19 stricken areas can be jailed for up to five years .
vietnam lifts rice export ban .
vietnam has lifted its ban on rice exports with immediate effect , allowing 400,000 tonnes to be shipped this month .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc scrapped the ban friday and ordered relevant ministries to develop an export plan what will ensure the benefits of farmers and traders .
the finance ministry was tasked with controlling the amount of rice to be exported , and to buy 190,000 tonnes from traders for reserves .
the ministry of industry and trade will order vietnam customs to stop allowing exports once the set quota is reached .
on march 24 , the pm had imposed a rice export ban until late may to ensure national food security amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic , but the trade ministry had proposed that it be lifted , arguing that supply will exceed demand by 6.7 million tonnes for the year .
the finance ministry had recently proposed that the export of regular rice is stopped until mid-june to build reserves and ensure national food security .
vietnam is the world 's third-largest rice exporter after india and thailand .
last year it exported 6.37 million tons worth $ 2.81 billion , with the top markets being the philippines , ivory coast , malaysia , and china .
two new covid-19 cases confirmed .
a vietnamese citizen who returned from abroad and a local girl have been confirmed as the two latest cases of covid-19 in vietnam on april 11st , taking the nation 's cumulative total number of confirmed cases to 257 .
according to the health ministry , the 256th patient is a 52-year-old resident of the northern province of hung yen .
he came back to vietnam from russia on flight su290 through hanoi 's noi bai international airport on march 27 and was sent to a quarantine center upon arrival .
the other patient , confirmed as the 257th case , is a 15-year-old student in me linh district , hanoi .
a man who is a friend of the student 's father and was later confirmed as the country 's 243rd coronavirus patient visited her house and chatted with her dad on march 20 .
on april 8 , she developed symptoms including a fever and runny nose .
her covid-19 test result came back positive two days later .
her dad also had his samples collected for testing and the result was negative .
vietnam , us collaborate to produce coronavirus protective gear .
the united states is collaborating with vietnamese partners to produce coronavirus protective gear and face masks and is seeking to transfer ventilator manufacturing technology to vietnam , stated the ministry of foreign affairs spokesperson le thi thu hang at a regular press meeting on april 9 .
hang pointed out that 450,000 protective suits produced in vietnam by us based company dupont were transported to the united states on april 8 .
the second batch of protective suits will be sent to the united states today , april 10 .
to promote international collaboration in dealing with covid-19 , vietnam is speeding up technology transfers and partnering with the united states to produce medical equipment and face masks meeting the n95 standard , which can prevent 95 percent of microparticles from entering the nose and mouth area .
these products will be exported to countries in need , including the united states .
i really appreciate the united states ' efforts in seeking appropriate vietnamese partners to transfer technologies to help vietnam produce mechanical ventilators , the foreign affairs ministry spokesperson remarked .
hang confirmed that even though covid-19 is still developing unpredictably in the country , the vietnamese government is always willing to support other countries fighting the pandemic .
vietnam confirms four new covid-19 cases .
four new covid-19 cases , including three having close contact with other patients , were confirmed in vietnam thursday evening , bringing the nation 's tally to 255 .
patient 252 is a six-year-old boy in hcmc 's district 5 .
he lives in cambodia in a family of five , of whom two have been infected with covid-19 and quarantined , treated in cambodia .
the boy returned to vietnam with two other family members through the moc bai border gate in southern tay ninh province , which borders hcmc , on april 8 .
he is being treated at tay ninh general hospital .
patient 253 is a 41-year-old woman in hanoi 's me linh district .
she is the sister-in-law of patient 243 , who lives near and had close contact with patient 243 , a man confirmed infected after visiting bach mai hospital , now the nation 's largest covid-19 hotspot .
she is being treated in the national hospital for tropical diseases .
patient 254 is a 51-year-old man in hanoi 's me linh district .
he 's a neighbor with patient 243 and patient 250 , and had close contact with both of them .
he is undergoing hemodialysis in the hanoi kidney hospital and has been quarantined there for covid-19 treatment .
patient 255 is a 29-year-old man in the northern ha giang province 's bac quang district .
he returned from russia to hanoi 's noi bai airport on aeroloft flight su290 on march 27 .
he is being treated at the national hospital of tropical diseases .
vietnam has entered the third stage of the epidemic with several community transmission cases and some sources of transmission yet to be detected , deputy health minister nguyen truong son said tuesday .
the covid-19 pandemic has spread to 209 countries and territories , claiming over 89,400 lives .
fan bingbing goes extravagantly frilly in vietnamese designer 's outfit .
the $ 80,000 black dress highlighted the chinese actress and model 's beauty in the march issue of the international magazine , earning raves from readers .
tuyet le said it took her more than six months to design and hand-make the dress for fan , who has a keen fashion sense and opts for a wide variety of styles .
this is not the first time tuyet le has worked with the chinese actress .
a mermaid gown created by her was chosen by fan for the harper 's bazaar ( vietnamese ) january 2020 issue .
fan bingbing has become a global fashion icon with frequent red carpet appearances at premier events .
tuyet le has worked with several international stars including singer shontelle , miss universe 2015 pia wurtzbach and miss world 2013 megan young .
northern irish driver pleads guilty over 39 vietnamese truck deaths .
maurice robinson has pleaded guilty to 39 counts of manslaughter related to the deaths of vietnamese people found in a shipping container in southeast england last year , police said wednesday .
the victims , 31 men and boys and eight women whose ages ranged from 15 to 44 , were discovered in october in a container at the back of a truck driven by robinson to an industrial estate in grays in essex , about 20 miles ( 32 km ) east of london .
most were from nghe an and ha tinh provinces in north-central vietnam .
robinson , 25 , had pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing in november to charges of conspiring to assist unlawful immigration and acquiring cash which he knew or suspected came from criminal conduct .
at wednesday 's hearing at the old bailey , london 's central criminal court , a second man who was also charged with 39 counts of manslaughter , british-romanian dual national gheorghe nica , 43 , pleaded not guilty .
several others have been arrested and charged in both vietnam and the united kingdom .
autopsies concluded that the provisional cause of death of the 39 vietnamese people was a combination of hypoxia , or oxygen deprivation , and hyperthermia , or overheating , in an enclosed space .
the trial will begin on monday , october 5 .
vietnam donates half a million face masks to five european countries .
vietnam has handed over 550,000 antibacterial cloth masks to france , germany , italy , spain and the u.k to support their covid-19 fight .
a ceremony to mark the donation was held tuesday wherein deputy foreign affairs minister to anh dung symbolically handed over the made-in-vietnam masks to the ambassadors of the five nations .
a foreign ministry statement said that in the spirit of strategic partnership and traditional friendship , vietnam has devoted part of its resources to helping european countries , so that they can have more means to protect people 's health and overcome the current difficult period , when the covid-19 pandemic has been having very serious impacts on the continent .
europe has emerged as the epicenter of the pandemic alongside the us , with italy leading the world in the number of deaths at over 17,000 , followed by spain with more than 14,000 .
the us is third with more than 12,800 deaths , followed by france with more than 10,300 , u.k more than 6,000 and germany more than 2,000 .
dung said in this global health crisis , no single country can effectively deal with the spread of the disease , and international cooperation and strengthened solidarity are important factors in protecting the health and ensuring safety of the people .
all nations are beholden to contribute to minimizing the enormous impacts of covid-19 , he said .
he said , vietnam is always ready to cooperate closely , exchange experiences , and join hands with other countries to implement necessary measures in accordance with bilateral and multilateral frameworks such as the asean - eu , the g20 , and the united nations with a strong determination to soon repel and control the pandemic .
ambassadors of the five nations and pier giorgio aliberti , head of the delegation of the european union to vietnam , expressed their gratitude to the vietnamese government and people .
the pandemic has claimed more than 82,000 lives as it reached 209 countries and territories .
vietnam rejects china 's sovereignty claims over vietnamese territories .
vietnam has rejected and protested china sending two diplomatic notes to the u.n. , laying claim to vietnamese territories in the east sea .
one of the diplomatic notes was sent by china to the united nations ( u.n. ) on march 23 in response to the philippines .
it claimed illegally that china has sovereignty over the spratly islands and adjacent waters , has sovereignty and jurisdiction rights over relevant sea areas , seabeds and subsoil .
it also said that it has historic rights in the east sea , internationally known as the south china sea , based on historical and legal evidences .
the other note was sent on december 12 last year in response to malaysia .
it also made the illegal claim that china has sovereignty over islands in the east sea , including the pratas , spratly and paracel islands and the zhongsa qundao .
what china calls the zhongsa qundao are the macclesfield bank and the scarborough shoal .
china also mentioned its historical rights in the east sea .
a diplomatic note sent by vietnam 's permanent mission to the u.n on march 30 said .
vietnam protests china 's claims in the aforementioned diplomatic notes .
these claims seriously violate vietnam 's sovereignty and jurisdiction rights over the east sea .
vietnam has full legal basis and historical evidence to assert its sovereignty over the spratly and paracel islands in accordance with international law , the note stressed .
vietnam considers the united nations convention on the law of the sea ( unclos ) to be the sole legal basis that comprehensively and absolutely dictates the scope of rights over sea areas between vietnam and china .
vietnam 's consistent stance on the aforementioned issues has been affirmed multiple times in several documents issued at the u.n. , as well as in statements sent to relevant international entities .
vietnam requests that the u.n secretary-general issues its diplomatic note to all member nations of unclos as well as members of the u.n. , the note said .
china claims almost the entire south china sea , including waters close to vietnam , the philippines , malaysia , brunei , and taiwan .
four vietnamese billionaires make forbes 2020 rich list .
the number of billionaires in vietnam reduced by one from last year to four on forbes magazine 's 2020 list of the world 's richest people .
on the list released wednesday , pham nhat vuong , owner of vietnam 's biggest real estate conglomerate vingroup and the country 's first billionaire , enjoyed his eighth consecutive appearance , ranked as the world 's 286th richest person this year .
vuong also retained his position as vietnam 's richest man with a net worth of $ 5.6 billion , down $ 1 billion compared to last year .
ceo of budget carrier vietjet air nguyen thi phuong thao also made her fourth appearance on the list as the 1,001st richest person in the world .
vietnam 's richest woman has an estimated net worth of $ 2.1 billion , down $ 200 million from a year ago .
tran ba duong , chairman of truong hai auto corporation ( thaco ) , made the list for the third time at $ 1.5 billion , down $ 200 million from last year , ranked 1,415th .
last on this year 's forbes list was ho hung anh , chairman of vietnam technological & commercial joint-stock bank , or techcombank .
he broke into the list for the second time with a net worth of $ 1 billion , down $ 700 million to rank 1,990th in the world .
fish sauce magnet nguyen dang quang , who entered the forbes ' billionaire list last year for the first time , did n't appear this time .
this is the 34th year forbes magazine has compiled its list of the world 's billionaires .
this year 's list sees a total of 2,095 billionaires with a combined wealth of $ 8 trillion , down from $ 8.7 trillion in 2020 .
centi-billionaire amazon founder jeff bezos maintains the top spot in this year 's ranking , for the third consecutive year , despite his net worth hitting $ 113 billion , down $ 18 billion from last year .
microsoft co-founder bill gates remains second , followed by ceo and chairman of luxury goods empire lvmh bernard arnault .
online searches for condoms rose 56 percent in march .
online searches for condoms rose 56 percent in march as people stayed at home , fearful of the coronavirus pandemic .
the rise was recorded on iprice , a website aggregator of online products for customers to compare prices , which suggested it was because of limited traveling in the country .
it also reported seven- and three-fold surges in searches for webcams and keyboards as most companies told employees to work from home and use video calls to connect .
the trend is expected to continue this month since the government has issued a nationwide social distancing campaign , iprice said .
searches for toys tripled since schools are closed , and there was rising demand for gaming devices like nintendo switch and xbox .
there were also more searches for traditional children 's items like puzzles , yo-yos , and inflatable swimming pools .
with gymnasiums closed , people seemed to be interested in working out at home as searches for gym equipment rose 116 percent , mostly for dumbbells , treadmills and stationery bikes .
kitchenware searches rose by 80 percent as people cooked more because restaurants are closed .
there was a rising demand for juicers , blenders and oil-less fryers .
searches for supplements with vitamin c were up 42 percent as people sought to strengthen their immunity against the virus .
a recent report by market research firm nielsen said half of the respondents reduced supermarket and traditional market visits amid the pandemic , and a quarter spent more time shopping online .
vietnam has recorded 251 covid-19 patients but no deaths , of whom 122 have been discharged .
vietnam 's coronavirus cases hit 251 .
the ministry of health has just confirmed two more cases of coronavirus , including one having close contact with the 243rd patient in hanoi city 's me linh district , taking the country 's total number of confirmed cases to 251 as of this morning , april 8 .
the 250th patient , a 50-year-old woman , is a neighbor of the 234th case .
the hanoi resident developed symptoms of covid-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus , on april 2 .
the test results of the patient 's sample taken on april 5 came back positive for the virus on april 7 .
she is under treatment at the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district .
the 251st case , whose source of the infection remains unknown , is being treated at ha nam general hospital , the local media reported .
the 64-year-old male sufferer has been being treated at the department of gastroenterology at the hospital since march 20 .
during his treatment , his son and daughter-in-law have traveled from hanoi city to ha nam province to visit him .
after the patient tested positive for the virus on april 7 , the competent agencies have been investigating the source of the infection .
over 30 doctors and nurses in close contact with the 251st case are now under quarantine .
vietnam had reported 251 cases of coronavirus in 26 cities and provinces as of this morning , april 8 , with the number of recovered patients reaching 122 .
us 'seriously concerned ' over china sinking vietnamese fishing boat .
us state department spokesman morgan ortagus monday condemned china for sinking a vietnamese fishing boat , calling it an assertion of an unlawful claim .
ortagus said the us was seriously concerned on the incident that took place near the paracel islands in the south china sea .
he said the incident was another act by china to assert unlawful maritime claims and disadvantage its southeast asian neighbors in the south china sea .
on thursday , a chinese coast guard vessel rammed and sank the boat owned by tran hong tho , a native of the central province of quang ngai , with eight fishermen onboard as they were fishing off the phu lam ( woody ) island in vietnam 's hoang sa archipelago ( paracel islands ) .
vietnam calls the south china sea the east sea .
the us state department spokesman also noted that beijing has rolled out new research stations on military bases it has built on fiery cross reef and subi reef , and landed special military aircraft on the fiery cross reef since the onset of the global pandemic .
maritime militia has also continued to be deployed by china around the spratly islands , ortagus said , adding that china 's infamous nine-dashed line had been deemed an unlawful maritime claim by an arbitral tribunal convened under the 1982 law of the sea convention in july 2016 , a position shared by the us government .
ortagus called on beijing to remain focused on working on the covid-19 pandemic with the international community and to cease its exploitation of the distraction or vulnerability of other countries to expand its claims in the south china sea .
vietnamese foreign ministry spokesman le thi thu hang had demanded friday that china investigates the incident and take strict action against the chinese vessel and refrain from repeating such acts in future as well as pay proper compensation for the damage caused to the vietnamese fishermen .
these actions of the chinese vessel have infringed on vietnam 's sovereignty over the hoang sa islands and endangered the lives and properties of vietnamese fishermen , she said .
china 's actions also go against the common view of senior leaders of the two countries on treating fishermen humanely .
as well as the vietnam-china agreement on basic principles guiding the settlement of maritime issues .
they also violate the declaration on the conduct of parties in the south china sea and negatively affect negotiations for a code of conduct in the waters , hang said .
the move has increased tensions , caused destabilization and is not beneficial to the maintenance of peace , stability , and cooperation in the region , she added .
hang had reiterated that vietnam has full legal basis and historical evidence under international law to assert its sovereignty over the hoang sa ( paracel ) and truong sa ( spratly ) archipelagos .
the vietnam fisheries society has also called on the government office , the ministry of foreign affairs and other government agencies to ensure china pays compensation to vietnamese fishermen for sinking their boats .
the quang ngai 's fisheries society said that after sinking the vietnamese boat , the chinese vessel had picked up eight vietnamese fishermen and taken them to the woody island .
upon receiving news of the sunken ship , three other vietnamese fishing boats tried to rescue then , but were chased away by the chinese vessel .
two of the vessels were captured and towed to the island .
at 2 p.m thursday , china released the two fishing boats and eight fishermen .
a day later , vietnamese authorities received the detained vietnamese fishermen safely .
china seized the paracel islands from south vietnam by force in 1974 , and has since been occupying them illegally .
in 2014 china brought an oil rig , haiyang shiyou 981 , and installed it in waters off the paracel islands , changing the status quo in the waters .
since then , chinese ships have chased after and rammed many vietnamese fishing vessels near the islands in vietnamese waters .
four new cases take vietnam 's covid-19 count to 249 .
vietnam reported four new coronavirus infections tuesday evening , three of them overseas returnees and one linked to hcmc hotspot buddha bar & grill .
patient 247 , a 28-year-old man residing in ward 1 , binh thanh district , hcmc , works with two people connected to the hcmc 's buddha bar & grill , the nation 's second-biggest covid-19 hotspot .
he manages the office of gia dinh shoes co. ltd. at 20a dong khoi street , thanh phu commune , vinh cuu district , dong nai province .
the company has another office in an phu dong ward , district 2 , hcmc .
as a colleague of two infected brazilians who also work for the same company , the office manager had come into close contact with them .
one of his colleagues , patient 124 , is a brazilian man , 52 , who lives in hcmc 's district 2 .
on march 14 , he joined a party at the buddha bar & grill in thao dien ward of hcmc 's district 2 and was quarantined on march 22 before testing covid-19 positive .
the other colleague , patient 151 , is a 45-year-old brazilian woman residing in thao dien .
after patient 124 was confirmed , patient 247 was sent to a quarantine camp in dong nai on march 24 .
two days later , he tested negative for the novel coronavirus .
however , at the quarantine camp , he had stayed in the same room as four others who 'd also been in close contact with patients 124 and 151 .
on april 6 , his samples were tested again , and this time , the results came back covid-19 positive .
he has been transferred to the dong nai lung hospital for treatment .
the four people who 'd been quarantined in the same room as patient 247 will continue to stay in quarantine for another 14 days .
for now , they have yet to show any covid-19 symptoms .
patient 247 brought the number of cases related to the buddha bar & grill to 19 .
the nation 's biggest hotspot to date , the bach mai hospital in hanoi , has 44 cases .
the other three cases confirmed tuesday evening are vietnamese returning from abroad who were quarantined on arrival .
patient 246 is a 33-year-old man from yen thanh district in the central province of nghe an .
he works as a chef in moscow , russia , and returned to vietnam on aeroflot flight su290 , seat 49f , on march 25 .
he tested positive on april 6 and is undergoing treatment at the national hospital of tropical diseases in hanoi 's dong anh district .
patient 248 , 20 , flew from the us to vietnam , transiting in japan on japan airlines flight jl079 .
after landing in hcmc march 23 , he was sent to a quarantine camp at a university dormitory in thu duc district and stayed in the same room with two other people .
on april 5 , his samples tested positive .
his two roommates have been placed under quarantine for a further 14 days while he has been sent to the cu chi district field hospital .
patient 249 is a 55-year-old man who flew back from the us , transited in hong kong , and arrived in vietnam on march 22 .
after complaining of a headache and fever , his samples were tested and found positive .
he is being treated at hanoi 's national hospital of tropical diseases .
the covid-19 pandemic has so far claimed almost 76,000 lives as it hit 209 countries and territories .
no new covid-19 case tuesday morning .
this was the third morning in a row that vietnam had had no new covid-19 case .
since march 6 , every morning briefing has reported several new covid-19 infections .
the number of new cases recorded in a day in vietnam had fallen steadily over the past four days , from ten on april 3 to three on april 4 , and then just one on april 5 until the night of april 6 .
tran dac phu , senior advisor at the public health emergency operations center under the health ministry , said at a meeting monday that the improvement seen was not a reason for vietnam and its citizens to neglect any measure needed to prevent the spread of the infection .
we can not say anything at this point about the decrease in the number of new cases because the incubation time has been identified at 14 days , he said , adding that as the number of cases are falling , stronger measures should be taken .
if we 're not careful , vietnam can see the epidemic grow out of control , just like it has happened in many other places in the world right now , he said .
the covid-19 pandemic has claimed more than 74,000 lives as it spread to 209 countries and territories .
vietnam has enough equipment to handle 10,000 coronavirus cases .
vietnam now has enough medical equipment to handle 10,000 coronavirus cases at a time , stated deputy minister of health truong quoc cuong at a meeting this morning , april 6 .
according to cuong , vietnam is producing face masks and protective gear for medical workers , using domestic materials , to prevent coronavirus infections and have enough to export .
the country is also trying to produce ventilators to replace imported machines .
we have enough medical equipment , devices , ventilators and protective equipment ready at hand in case there are 10,000 coronavirus infections .
we are also preparing for the worst-case scenarios , cuong remarked .
the deputy minister noted that vietnam has strictly applied coronavirus infection prevention and control measures , and the pandemic is still under control .
however , it is developing unpredictably so the government and all citizens should not be careless .
deputy minister of public security nguyen van son pointed out that the number of new infections has dropped in recent days .
however , local authorities and citizens need to continue complying with strict preventive measures .
according to deputy prime minister vu duc dam , it has been over two months since vietnam reported its first coronavirus case .
the number of infections has amounted to 241 and vietnam is one of the three countries with over 200 coronavirus cases that have not reported deaths .
dam expressed his thanks to all citizens for their efforts in dealing with the coronavirus as every citizen is a fighter .
no wedding parties until epidemic stops .
the ministry of culture , sports and tourism ( mocst ) has instructed authorities at all levels to promote people 's awareness of the dangers of covid-19 by delaying wedding parties and related activities .
authorities have been told to advise people to delay their happy days until the pandemic is over .
wedding announcements are being particularly encouraged instead of partying in the midst of the fatal outbreak .
in a circular signed by deputy minister of culture , sports and tourism trịnh thị thủy , the ministry stressed the importance of improving the role of the community in the battle against covid-19 , including suspending events such as weddings .
the circular was issued following the prime minister 's directive no 16 ct-ttg from march 31 regarding the implementation of urgent measures to prevent and combat covid-19 .
the mocst has urged departments of cultural management in provinces and cities to strictly follow the ordinance and ensure distancing principles among local families , villages , communes , districts , provinces , workshops and factories .
people should wear masks and follow hygienic regulations , according to the ordinance .
regarding funerals , it warned people not to invite guests .
families should also follow all disease prevention and control measures according to regulations .
people are advised not to gather in crowds while performing rituals at ancestral graves and ensure a two-meter distance is maintained .
families should not organize parties , festivals , meetings or other forms of gatherings during the epidemic .
japan to declare emergency as tokyo cases soar .
japan is to declare a state of emergency in the capital tokyo and six other regions in an attempt to tackle the rapid spread of coronavirus .
prime minister shinzo abe said the move could come as early as tuesday .
he also announced a huge stimulus plan to help the economy weather the virus .
japan has a relatively small number of infections compared to other countries , but there are concerns a sudden surge in cases in tokyo could lead to a major outbreak in the world 's biggest city .
so far japan has confirmed 85 deaths .
in tokyo there are now more than 1,000 confirmed cases , more than double the number a week ago .
the state of emergency would last about a month , mr abe said .
it will cover tokyo , osaka and five other prefectures .
the governors of the prefectures will have the powers to close schools and businesses , but the authorities will not have the legal authority to order citizens to stay at home .
four new coronavirus infections bring national total to 245 .
a vietnamese man who visited hanoi 's bach mai hospital and three others quarantined upon landing in vietnam are the latest covid-19 cases , the health ministry said monday .
patient 242 is a 47-year-old man from me linh district , hanoi .
on march 12 , he brought his wife to the bach mai hospital 's department of immunology and allergy for a checkup .
the couple left the hospital and later went for a bite at a shop opposite the hospital on giai phong street on the same day .
since then , he has not returned to the hospital .
eighteen days later , he visited a communal medical facility to submit his health declaration and was told to self-quarantine at home .
he had close contact with his family members and business partners .
the patient is asymptomatic .
on april 4 , his samples were taken by the hanoi center for disease control which two days later showed him positive for the coronavirus .
the man is under treatment at the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district , hanoi .
the three others are those returning from russia on aeroflot flight su290 on march 25 .
they landed in hanoi 's noi bai international airport and were quarantined immediately at fpt university dormitory in thach that district , hanoi .
the three are currently treated at the national hospital for tropical diseases hospital in hanoi 's dong anh district .
patient 243 is a 34-year-old female vietnamese hailing from cam quan commune , cam xuyen district in the central province of ha tinh .
she lived and worked in russia .
she sat on seat 23a .
her samples were tested by the hanoi center for disease control on sunday .
patient 244 , a 44-year-old vietnamese woman , resides in bo trach district in the central province of quang binh .
she worked at a fast-food restaurant in germany .
she flew from germany to russia on aeroflot flight su2313 on seat 20f and later boarded the same flight as patient 243 on seat 40c .
her samples were tested on monday by the hanoi center for disease control .
patient 245 , a 21-year-old woman , resides in quynh son commune , quynh luu district in the central province of nghe an .
she worked as a nail technician in spain .
she flew from spain to russia on flight su250 on seat 26b and later boarded the same flight as patient 243 on seat 30h .
her samples were also tested on monday by the hanoi center for disease control .
as of monday , 95 out of the total 245 reported patients have recovered .
globally , the covid-19 pandemic has claimed more than 69,500 lives .
no new cases of covid-19 reported for second successive morning .
for the second morning in a row , no new cases of covid-19 have been detected in việt nam .
the national steering committee on covid-19 prevention and control announced on monday morning there were zero infections reported .
this is only the second time the country has been able to record no cases in its daily update since march 6 .
on march 22 , 19 people tested positive for the disease , the highest amount detected on one day .
one new case was reported on sunday evening but the patient , a vietnamese student who had been studying in the uk , was immediately quarantined on his arrival .
so far , the amount of people nationwide carrying the virus remains at 241 .
of those , 149 are vietnamese nationals who have returned home from overseas and 61 cases are connected to the bạch mai hospital in hà nội .
there are 67,273 people currently in quarantine .
among these , 1,277 people are being monitored at hospitals , 23,922 people are quarantined at centres or other establishments and 42,004 are self-quarantined at home .
among 150 patients are under treatment at 21 health facilities , 29 ones have negative results for the first time while 23 others have negative results for the second time .
a 64-year-old woman who was in a serious condition after catching the virus , is also showing signs of recovery .
according to the ministry of health , 91 patients have made a full recovery .
student returning from uk is 'patient 241 ' .
a 20-year-old vietnamese student returning from the u.k has tested covid-19 positive , taking the country 's tally to 241 , the health ministry confirmed sunday .
patient 241 is a resident of the thao dien area in hcmc 's district 2 .
on march 21 , he flew home from london on vietnam airlines flight vn0050 , landing at the can tho airport in the mekong delta on march 22 .
he was asymptomatic on arrival and sent to a centralized quarantine facility at a military school in southern bac lieu province .
his swab samples tested negative for covid-19 on march 25 , but on march 31 , he developed fever and had a sore throat .
a day later , he was taken to the bac lieu general hospital for treatment and a testing of his samples showed he was infected with the novel coronavirus .
nine people in the same room at the quarantine facility continue to be asymptomatic , but their health is being monitored closely and they are quarantined for another 14 days .
the covid-19 pandemic has spread to more than 200 countries and territories , claiming more than 64,000 lives .
tiger tests positive for covid-19 at new york city zoo , first case of its kind in us .
a 4-year-old female malayan tiger at a zoo in new york city has tested positive for the novel ( new ) coronavirus , according to results from the national veterinary services laboratories at the us department of agriculture ( usda ) .
officials say it 's thought to be the first known covid-19 infection in an animal in the us .
the usda said samples from the tiger , named nadia , were taken and evaluated after several lions and tigers at the bronx zoo presented symptoms of respiratory illness .
health officials say the large cats got sick from being exposed to a zoo employee who had covid-19 , but was asymptomatic .
the bronx zoo has been closed since mid-march .
the first tiger began showing signs of sickness on march 27 , according to the usda .
no other animals in the zoo are experiencing coronavirus symptoms , officials said .
can humans get coronavirus from animals ?
the usda 's press release said there is no evidence that animals play a role in the transmission of covid-19 to people , except for the initial outbreak at a food market in wuhan , china .
in addition , there is no evidence that any person has been infected with covid-19 in the us by animals , including by pet dogs or cats .
the usda said this is the first case of its kind and further studies are needed to understand if and how different animals could be affected by covid-19 .
health officials recommend frequent hand washing for at least 20 seconds with soap and warm water or use alcohol-based sanitizer .
the associated press cites the american veterinary medical association and the centers for disease control and prevention ( cdc ) as recommending that out of an abundance of caution , people ill with the coronavirus should limit contact with animals .
many viewers praised the lyrics of the song 'drum rice - against covid-19 ' .
the rice drum is a cheerful folk song from the red river delta region that is known and loved by vietnamese across different generations .
musician khuc dao minh has penned anti-covid lyrics and american singer kyo york has translated it , sung both vietnamese and english versions .
the lyrics warn about the dangers of the novel coronavirus and urge people to wear face masks , avoid crowded places and clean their hands .
with upbeat music and kyo york 's energetic performance and good command of vietnamese , the new version has quickly become popular , gathering more than 180,000 views on the singer 's youtube channel just a day after it was posted .
many viewers praised the lyrics for being easy to understand while keeping the main vibe of the original .
a very vietnamese covid-song .
kyo york must have such a great love for vietnam to use trong com ( rice drum ) to promote epidemic prevention , comments from a viewer .
kyo york said a catchy song that integrates good information from media can cheer people up , reduce stress and cope with quarantine boredom .
he recorded the music video himself before sending it to a team of editors .
before rice drum , kyo york had translated the song ghen co vy , composed by khac hung , into english , attracting more than 500,000 views .
ghen co vy released on february 23 by min and erik , was a project initiated the vietnamese ministry of health to increase awareness about covid-19 prevention .
the song went viral worldwide after being broadcast on hbo 's last week tonight with john oliver , who praised vietnam for many useful propaganda measures on the disease .
kyo york , 35 , came to vietnam in late 2009 to teach english to young people in the southern province of hau giang .
later , he moved to ho chi minh city and has been living there since .
he taught himself vietnamese and is passionate about vietnamese music .
the so-called provisional national government of vietnam was established in 1990 in the u.s with aim of overthrowing the vietnamese government through violence and acts of terrorism .
vietnamese authorities have already issued international arrest warrants against quan and six others , all living in the u.s or canada .
in august 2018 two of its members , both vietnamese-americans , were jailed in vietnam for making plans to sabotage the celebration of vietnam 's reunification day , april 30 , in 2017 .
the organization was also accused of being behind a petrol bomb attack that burnt 320 motorbikes at a police warehouse in the southern dong nai province in april 2017 , and a failed terror attack at hcmc 's tan son nhat international airport later that month .
in december 2017 a hcmc court sentenced 15 vietnamese to between five and 16 years in prison for the two attacks .
since late 2013 its members have been accused of carrying out false propaganda against the policies of the vietnamese government and communist party , instigating people to carry out acts of terrorism and calling for protests against and sabotage of national holidays .
south korean expert tests covid-19 positive back home from vietnam .
a south korean expert working in close contact with 46 people in southern binh duong province has tested covid-19 positive after returning home .
the south korean consulate general in hcmc has announced that the south korean man was working for sung gwang vina co. , ltd. , a vietnamese manufacturing affiliate of sung jin group , at the uyen hung industrial park in tan uyen town .
the man , whose name has not been revealed , entered vietnam on january 29 and left for home in south korea on april 1 .
a day later , he visited a medical center near his house for a health check and was confirmed infected with the novel coronavirus .
local authorities said that during the time the south korean man worked in binh duong , he had close contact with 46 people , including a driver , an interpreter , two cooks , seven south koreans , three of them his roommates , and 35 others working in the same group with him .
of these people , four south korean men are staying in hcmc while eight other workers had traveled to other localities including central binh thuan province and the southern provinces of dong nai , ca mau , vinh long and binh phuoc .
on saturday , the center for disease control in binh thuan province quarantined three men and a woman in a centralized facility at a local high school .
authorities in other localities are also looking for people who 'd come into contact with the south korean man or his colleagues in order to quarantine and test them .
vietnam has confirmed 240 covid-19 cases so far , 90 of whom have been discharged from hospitals .
many of the 150 active cases are vietnamese nationals returning from europe and the us , foreigners coming from the same regions and those who 'd come in contact with both groups of people .
as of saturday , south korea has reported more than 10,000 infections and 177 deaths .
vietnam reports no new covid-19 patient .
vietnam has not recorded new coronavirus covid-19 infections sunday morning , keeping the country 's tally at 240 , the health ministry said .
of the current 240 covid-19 cases , 90 have been discharged .
as many as 149 cases are vietnamese nationals returning from abroad , mostly europe and the us , and more than 60 people are related to the bach mai hospital in hanoi and buddha bar & grill in hcm , vietnam 's biggest covid-19 hotspots .
vietnam entered a 15-day nationwide social distancing campaign starting wednesday , not allowing gatherings of more than two people and asking people not to leave their homes to contain the spread of the pandemic .
the government also suspended all inbound international flights and halted road transport services until april 15 to limit travel in the country of 94 million people .
the covid-19 pandemic has so far spread to more than 200 countries and territories , claiming more than 64,000 lives .
mother and stepfather charged with murder of child .
the child was taken to hà nội medical university hospital on monday with injuries doctors determined showed signs of physical abuse , so they contacted police .
the toddler reportedly died before arriving at the hospital .
police in hà nội 's đống đa district arrested the toddler 's mother , 29-year-old nguyễn thị lan anh , and stepfather on monday .
they began criminal processing under charges of murder yesterday .
according to the hospital , the girl from phương liên ward , đống đa district had suffered from cranial subsidence , brain damage and a jaw fracture .
the girl reportedly lived with her grandmother in the city 's đông anh district since she was born .
on march 5 , lan anh took the toddler to her rented flat in phương liên ward to stay with her mother , stepfather , and a step-sister .
neighbors living around the flat reportedly said they had heard consistent crying since the toddler arrived .
lan anh 's mother has claimed the toddler was abused by lan anh and her husband for 24 days and posted pictures reportedly showing the injuries to the toddler on social media .
patient zero of some covid-19 flash points remains unidentified .
several new flashpoints in the spread of the coronavirus in vietnam can not identify patient zero , the first case to be infected with the virus and spread it to others .
this poses a high risk of cross-infection in the community and requires stricter social distancing measures , according to associate professor dr tran dac phu , senior advisor at the center for emergency response to public health events of vietnam .
patients zero of previous covid-19 flashpoints have been found .
the 17th case was identified as the patient zero of the flashpoint on truc bach street , hanoi , while the 34th case was identified as the first infection in binh thuan province .
however , experts have not been able to identify the patients zero of two recent flashpoints .
buddha bar in hcmc and bach mai hospital in hanoi .
dr phu stated that vietnam 's method of fighting coronavirus is early identification , early diagnosis and early isolation .
this is what china has effectively done and south korea is following .
according to phu , this is a crucial time for combating the coronavirus , requiring stricter social distancing measures .
compared with some other countries , vietnam is doing very well in controlling the pandemic by taking prompt and effective measures .
he said , if we strictly comply with coronavirus infection prevention and control measures , we will definitely fight off covid-19 soon .
nationwide social distancing , not lockdown .
the prime minister 's order on nationwide social distancing for 15 days , starting on april 1 , to prevent the spread of the coronavirus does not mean an all-out ban on travel and trade , stated minister and chairman of the government office mai tien dung .
according to dung , some local authorities have misunderstood and improperly applied the prime minister 's directive .
nationwide social distancing is not a lockdown , but since april 1 , some authorities have built barriers to prevent people from traveling or have suspended construction .
the government office has discussed the situation with these local authorities and will send them detailed guidance to help them apply the prime minister 's directive .
dung stressed that the government has not banned travel but is encouraging people to stay at home as much as possible and only go out if necessary .
the minister spoke highly of the hanoi government 's efforts in monitoring immigration at its gateways by checking the body temperature and health of travelers .
the government is still allowing factories or companies that produce essential goods to continue operating , but their employees are required to wear face masks and practice social distancing .
if a coronavirus case is reported , these factories and companies must shut down immediately to prevent cross infection .
civil servants and employees of other businesses have been encouraged to work from home .
explaining why the government has not issued a national lockdown , the minister noted that the pandemic is still under control and there are many provinces that have not reported coronavirus infections .
it is not necessary to suspend the production of essential goods and transport at the moment and socioeconomic stability must be ensured .
depending on how the pandemic develops , the government will issue further notices and regulations .
upcoming plans for vietnam football team after pandemic break .
the covid-19 pandemic has understandably changed this year 's schedule for the vietnamese football team , who have to prepare for two major events this year .
they had been supposed to gather for training on march 21 before fifa announced the postponement of the 2022 world cup qualifiers , which included a clash against malaysia on march 31 .
the team had to adjust their plans , including canceling a friendly against kyrgyzstan on march 26 .
in the last three months of the year vietnam have two important engagements , the rescheduled world cup qualifiers on october 13 and november 12 and 17 against malaysia , indonesia and the uae and the aff cup from november 23 to december 31 .
national coach park hang-seo thus has nearly seven months to prepare for the 11 matches .
his main mission now is to find players from the domestic league .
but with the v.league 1 postponed after two rounds because of the coronavirus , the korean and his assistants can not do anything at the moment but wait for its resumption .
if it resumes as tentatively schedule on april 15 , they will have a busy time since they will have to watch eight rounds of matches in just 44 days ( the first leg concludes on may 29 ) plus a few more matches in the v.league 2 .
according to the vietnam football federation , if the covid-19 situation is controlled and normalcy returns , the national team can gather for training on may 28 or june 1 .
people might wonder why in june since the matches only begin in october .
the short answer is that the vff and park have agreed to stick to the training schedule .
the second gathering of the national team will be in mid-september after the v.league 1 concludes .
this time the team are expected to go through intense preparations to try and qualify for the world cup and defend the aff cup title they won last year .
vietnam are leading group g of the qualifiers with 11 points after five unbeaten games .
they will advance to the final round if they can get seven points from the remaining three matches .
19 overseas returnees take vietnam 's covid-19 infections to 233 .
vietnam confirmed six more covid-19 cases early friday , five returning from abroad and one related to hanoi 's bach mai hospital .
patient 231 , 57 years old , is an employee of the truong sinh company , the food and logistics provider to hanoi 's bach mai hospital , now the nation 's biggest covid-19 hotspot .
she is a native of bac kan , living in the northern province 's kim ngu commune , na ri district .
on march 31 , she joined a team at the bach mai hospital for a business trip to the nearby ha nam province .
after learning about the infection cases at bach mai , the ha nam health sector isolated members of this team .
after she tested covid-19 positive , she was admitted to ha nam general hospital for treatment .
she takes the number of patients linked to the bach mai hospital to 43 , 27 of whom are employees of the truong sinh company .
the other five patients are people quarantined on arrival from abroad .
patients 228 , 229 and 230 returned to vietnam on march 20 and were quarantined in the northern province of ninh binh .
further details of their flights home have not been revealed .
patient 228 is a 29-year-old man from the northern province of bac giang now undergoing treatment at a medical center in ninh binh province 's ninh thang commune , hoa lu district .
patient 229 and patient 230 , women aged 30 and 28 respectively , are from the central province of ha tinh who have been admitted to the ninh binh general hospital for treatment .
patients 232 and 233 flew back to vietnam march 27 on aeroflot flight su290 from moscow and were quarantined in the northern province of vinh phuc .
they are being treated at the national hospital for tropical diseases in hanoi 's dong anh district .
patient 232 is a 67-year-old man from the southern province of ba ria-vung tau and patient 233 is a 24-year-old woman from nghe an province in central vietnam .
of the 233 cases of new coronavirus infection confirmed in vietnam until now , 75 have been discharged from hospitals .
vietnam declared covid-19 a national epidemic wednesday afternoon .
to date , the covid-19 pandemic has claimed almost 53,000 lives in 204 countries and territories .
trump again defends use of the term 'china virus ' .
president donald trump was pressed for the second straight day on why he is calling the coronavirus the chinese virus , amid instances of bigotry against asian americans .
after consulting with medical experts , and receiving guidance from the world health organization , cnn has determined that that name is both inaccurate and is considered stigmatizing .
trump claimed that he is using the term because china tried to blame the virus on us soldiers .
cause it comes from china .
it 's not racist at all , no , not at all .
it comes from china , that 's why .
i want to be accurate , trump said on wednesday .
pressed again , he said .
i have great love for all of the people from our country , but as you know china tried to say at one point ..
that it was caused by american soldiers .
that ca n't happen .
it 's not gon na happen , not as long as i 'm president .
it comes from china .
he also denied that it was a racist term to use .
nationwide social distancing to be extended to end of month .
nationwide social distancing shall be extended until the end of april to prevent the spread of the coronavirus , prime minister nguyen xuan phuc said at a meeting of the government yesterday , april 1 .
the prime minister earlier issued an order on nationwide social distancing for 15 days , starting at midnight on april 1 as an emergency measure to handle the virus .
phuc cited a survey by the berlin-based dalia research , noting that the vietnamese people 's confidence in the government 's response to covid-19 is the highest in the world , with 62 percent of respondents in vietnam .
he stressed that the government will take stronger measures in the coming days to fight off the pandemic .
if necessary , nationwide social distancing will be extended from the current 15 days to one month .
according to phuc , nationwide social distancing does not mean banning transport , restricting the production and trade of necessities and essential services or suspending construction .
it calls on the public to stay at home and only go out if necessary for buying food and medicine or working in factories or production facilities that produce essential goods and other emergency cases .
besides this , people should maintain a safe physical distance of at least 2 meters and not gather in groups of more than two in public places .
factories and production facilities should be disinfected regularly , while employees are required to wear face masks and practice social distancing .
though many countries have posted negative growth due to the coronavirus , phuc stated that vietnam 's gross domestic product ( gdp ) growth of 3.82 percent in the first quarter of 2020 was not too bad .
the government will try its best to prevent an economic downturn , he stressed .
however , the safety of the people will be prioritized ahead of economic growth .
if the pandemic continues , protecting the people 's health will be the most important thing , not production or economic growth , phuc said .
vietnam is applying three policies to ensure socioeconomic stability .
an easy monetary policy that reduces interest rates with a package worth vnd 250 trillion .
fiscal stimulus through tax reductions or tax payment extensions with a stimulus package worth vnd 30 trillion .
and aid for unemployed , poor or disadvantaged people .
phuc noted that these packages should be even larger to support socio-economic stability .
eu nations split on the economic rescue plan owning to the effect of covid-19 .
in a meeting on march 24 , it was the european union ( eu ) finance ministers that failed to reach an agreement on essential measures to withstand the economic shock due to the acute respiratory disease , called covid-19 , and nations ' leaders will put this problem on the table one more time at the online summit on march 26 .
as a consequence of the covid-19 outbreak , the european economy has been brought to its knees , and italy - with the backing of france and spain , has great expectation of a massive response from eu partners in a historic act of financial solidarity .
nevertheless , northern countries , especially germany and the netherlands , hardly think that it is an urgent matter for the reason that they believe that a huge stimulus announced by the european central bank is sufficient for now .
after two hours of talks without reaching a consensus , it was mario centeno , the president of the group of eu finance ministers ( eurogroup ) that issued a declaration that the finance ministers made commitments to exploring all possible avenues to support the group 's economies to make it through this hard time .
as such , the city had earlier asked the ministry of home affairs to issue instructions on the establishment of a satellite city east of hcmc .
in response to the city 's request , the ministry asked hcmc authorities to seek approval and guidance from the ministry of construction .
vietnam 's covid-19 tally up by four to 222 .
vietnam confirmed four more covid-19 cases early thursday , with one more patient related to hanoi 's bach mai hospital .
patient 219 is a 59-year-old woman from hung yen province in northern vietnam .
she took care of a patient at the department of neurology at bach mai , staying in the same room with patient 133 on march 16 .
patient 133 , a 66-year-old woman from the northern province of lai chau , was confirmed positive on march 24 after getting a heart ailment treated at the bach mai hospital for three weeks .
on march 25 , on learning about the lai chau case , patient 219 immediately visited the national hospital for tropical diseases in hanoi 's dong anh district for checking .
her samples showed she had contracted the virus and she was admitted for treatment at the hospital .
this latest case raises the number of infections associated with the bach mai hospital , now the nation 's largest infection hotspot , to at least 40 .
26 of them are employees of truong sinh company , a food and logistic services provider to bach mai .
the remaining three cases recorded thursday morning are vietnamese returning from abroad who had been quarantined upon arrival .
patient 220 is a 20-year-old man who returned from france on march 17 .
he was sent to a quarantine camp in hanoi 's thach that district and developed covid-19 symptoms of fever and cough on march 22 .
patient 221 is 24 , a student in canada .
she returned to vietnam march 24 on a flight transiting in taipei , and was quarantined at an army facility in the northern province of vinh phuc .
her test results were confirmed positive on march 30 .
patient 222 is a 28-year-old woman in hanoi 's phuc loi commune , long bien district .
she lives and works and the us .
she flew home on march 20 and tested positive on march 30 .
of the 222 covid-19 cases confirmed in vietnam until now , 64 have been discharged from hospital .
vietnam declared covid-19 a national epidemic wednesday afternoon with infections recorded in 25 out of 63 cities and provinces .
the covid-19 pandemic has so far spread to 203 countries and territories , claiming over 47,000 lives .
two men employed , dressed up as the pocong , to guard the village 's main entrance for a self-imposed isolation .
istimewathe tuk songo village in the purworejo regency of central java has recently gone viral on social media for employing two men who dressed up as pocong to guard the village 's main entrance , after a self-imposed isolation to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus was put in place .
a pocong is basically the indonesian zombie , wrapped up from head to toe with white cloth as is customary in islamic burial rites , with only their faces uncovered .
with the ongoing isolation , all other access to the village is closed and residents can only enter through the pocong-guarded gate .
according to angko , the village 's spokesman , angko setiyarso widodo there is an important subtext behind the pocong guards .
the pocongs are to remind us of death , so anyone who 's ngeyel ( stubborn ) and does n't wantto participate in the coronavirus preventative measures can themselves become a pocong .
our hope is for the pandemic to end soon , angko said .
vietnam to compensate covid-19 job loss with monthly allowance .
a government proposal would allow people whose employment is adversely affected by the covid-19 crisis to receive a monthly allowance of vnd 1.8 million ( $ 77 ) .
the proposal would cover contract employees , part-time workers and those on unpaid leave or have reduced income as a result of the covid-19 pandemic 's impacts on the country .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc made the proposal at a government meeting tuesday .
phuc also requested that businesses ensure they have enough funds to pay their affected employees .
those without enough funds would be allowed to borrow from the vietnam bank for social policies ( vbsp ) at preferential interest rates , and the state bank of vietnam would be required to supply the vbsp with more funds .
also under the proposal , the poor would receive a monthly allowance of vnd 1 million ( $ 43 ) , while social protection beneficiaries and those with meritorious services would receive vnd 500,000 per month .
household businesses that have had to suspend operation and suffer difficulties due to covid-19 would also be supported with vnd 1 million per month .
the allowances would be provided over at least three months ( until june ) , and would be taken from the central government and local administrations ' budgets , with the total estimated at vnd 28-30 trillion ( $ 1.2- 1.3 billion ) .
phuc said that the current emergency situation requires the government to ensure basic living standards for the people , especially for laborers , the poor , the weak , part-time workers and those who have lost their jobs , as covid-19 has heavily impacted on not only production , businesses , and state budget revenue but also the people 's lives .
besides , the government leader also demanded that various scenarios be mapped out so the country can actively and timely respond to new developments of the deadly virus , with an aim to ensure all people remain safe and sound .
further , when the nationwide stay-at-home order comes into effect , social security is an urgent issue needed to be resolved since the lives of underprivileged and unemployed people will be hit hardest .
pm phuc added that this issue will be discussed at another government meeting , scheduled for tomorrow morning .
vietnam issues social distancing order .
the prime minister has issued an order on nationwide social distancing for 15 days , starting at midnight on april 1 as an emergency measure to slow the spread of the coronavirus .
under the order , households should distance from other households , villages should distance from other villages , communes should distance from other communes , districts should distance from other districts and provinces should distance from other provinces .
factories and production facilities should be disinfected regularly .
their employees are required to wear face masks and practice social distancing .
the move is aimed at ensuring residents ' health and safety as the number of confirmed coronavirus cases continues to rise , the government news website reported .
the ministries , municipal and provincial governments , and other agencies have been told to strictly apply coronavirus infection prevention and control measures .
the prime minister also called on the public to stay at home and only go out if necessary for buying food and medicine , working in factories or production facilities serving essential goods and other emergency cases .
besides this , people should maintain a safe physical distance of at least 2 meters and not gather in groups of more than two in public places .
the ministries of health and of public security and the authorities of hanoi and hcmc are required to take stronger measures to stamp out covid-19 infection clusters at bach mai hospital in hanoi and buddha bar in hcmc .
enterprises , state-owned firms , and agencies should let their staff work from home and avoid going to their workplaces , with few exceptions .
besides this , the ministry of transport and the authorities of the nation 's provinces and cities are required to stop public passenger transport services and restrict travel between districts and provinces .
the ban is not applicable to goods and food transportation and shuttle transport services for employees .
five new cases bring vietnam 's covid-19 count to 212 .
vietnam confirmed five more cases of the new coronavirus infection early wednesday , three vietnamese returning from overseas and two linked to hanoi 's bach mai hospital .
patient 208 is a 38-year-old woman who works for the truong sinh company , which provides food and other logistic services to bach mai , one of the biggest public hospitals in vietnam .
patient 209 , 55 , resides in duc giang commune , long bien district of hanoi .
she works as a cook at petrolimex hanoi co. , ltd in duc giang .
between march 18 and 24 , she had come into close contact with patient 163 at the company 's canteen .
patient 163 is a 43-year-old vietnamese woman who is granddaughter of patient 161 who lives in hanoi 's long bien district .
she was a caretaker for her grandmother at the bach mai hospital .
those that have been quarantined related to patient 209 are her husbands , two sons , her mother and a housemaid .
wednesday morning additions raise the number of cases associated with bach mai hospital , now the nation 's largest infection hotspot , to at least 36 .
24 of them are employees at truong sinh .
the remaining three new cases are all vietnamese returning from abroad .
patient 210 is a 26-year-old woman in can loc district of ha tinh province in central vietnam .
she returned to vietnam from thailand on march 20 after she had met with patient 201 , also a truong sinh employee .
upon arrival , she was quarantined at a camp in ha tinh and tested positive .
she is now undergoing treatment at cau treo general hospital in the province .
patient 211 , 23 , lives at chua lang street , lang thuong ward , dong da district , hanoi and studies in the us .
on march 20 , she returned to vietnam after transiting in abu dhabi and bangkok and was sent to a quarantine camp in ninh binh province in northern vietnam .
her test results came back positive four days later .
now she is receiving treatment at ninh binh general hospital .
patient 212 is a 35-year-old woman in hung ha district of thai binh province in the north .
she flew back to vietnam with her husband on aeroflot flight su290 from moscow on march 27 .
the couple was quarantined in the northern province of vinh phuc before she felt tired and ran a fever on march 29 .
after she was confirmed infected , she was transferred for treatment at the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district of hanoi .
there has been no update on her husband .
of the 212 covid-19 patients confirmed in vietnam until now , 58 have been cured and discharged from hospitals .
the covid-19 pandemic has spread to 202 countries and territories , claiming over 42,000 lives .
public buses in hcmc to be suspended .
public bus services in hcmc will be suspended for two weeks , from april 1 to 15 , to stem the spread of the coronavirus , reported tuoi tre newspaper .
nguyen thanh phong , chairman of the municipal government , has approved the hcmc transport department 's proposal to suspend bus services for the fortnight , which is considered a critical period for vietnam to be able to prevent covid-19 , the disease caused by the novel coronavirus , from spreading further .
according to the transport department , the city has over 3,000 buses operating on roughly 200 routes .
the suspension is a necessary move at this time to combat the fast-spreading and life-threatening virus .
earlier , the city had decided to temporarily discontinue the operations of 54 bus lines , including some interprovincial and inner-city routes , from midnight on march 28 to april 15 .
hcmc to let covid-19 doctors rest in hotels .
doctors and nurses treating covid-19 patients in ho chi minh city can rest in hotels and enjoy dining services there .
the city is planning to use three hotels to provide accommodation and dining for doctors and nurses working at three hospitals that are treating covid-19 patients and quarantining those suspected to have the disease , the municipal health department said monday .
several hotel operators have registered to offer their services for quarantining purposes .
for now , the city is treating covid-19 patients and quarantining suspects at the hcmc hospital for tropical diseases and two of its field hospitals in the two outlying districts of cu chi and can gio .
the municipal health department is mobilizing more doctors and nurses so that they can take turns to be on duty at the three field hospitals .
as of tuesday morning , the city had recorded 46 cases , of whom 10 have been discharged .
the rest are in stable condition .
in all , vietnam has confirmed 204 covid-19 infections , of whom 55 have recovered and been discharged .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc on monday agreed with a health ministry proposal to declare the covid-19 outbreak ' a national epidemic ' and asked everyone to stay put , wherever they are , for at least 15 days .
the government had decided sunday to suspend all international passenger flights to vietnam and limit flights between hanoi , ho chi minh city and other localities in the coming two weeks .
deputy pm vu duc dam has ordered mobilization of all forces to eliminate the novel coronavirus at hanoi 's bach mai hospital , one of vietnam 's largest .
dam said told at an online meeting saturday that this was a very important task in the coming days and called for all forces of the ministry of health , the hanoi municipality and the bach mai hospital to carry out the mission .
the elimination of covid-19 outbreaks is crucial when it has spread to the community .
dam asked for a list to be made of all people who 'd been to the hospital since march 12 .
all localities whose residents had been to the hospital must take stronger measures and cooperate with relevant agencies to stamp out the covid-19 outbreak completely , he said .
deputy minister of health nguyen truong son said bach mai hospital was a big , dangerous outbreak .
he said the ministry has set up a special task force to carry out epidemiological investigations .
hanoi chairman nguyen duc chung had said at a meeting wednesday that the bach mai hospital was at high risk of becoming a new covid-19 outbreak center like the daegu hospital in south korea , given common factors like heavy patients and large crowds .
the hospital has suspended admission of new patients and been isolated since saturday morning .
nearly 5,000 staff and patients at bach mai had been ordered to take covid-19 tests by this sunday .
son said that the hospital is a large medical facility that sees 10,000-15,000 passers-by every day , so the infection can spread not only from patients and medical workers but also from visitors .
therefore , the risk of infection in bach mai , as well as other hospitals , is enormous , he noted .
officers and medical staff quarantined at the bach mai hospital continue to treat patients still stuck inside .
the health ministry will provide medicines , equipment , and other medical supplies and to ensure that the staff can provide complete treatment for patients , son added .
associate professor tran dac phu , former director of the health ministry 's preventive medicine department , said that over the past two weeks , epidemiologists have been closely monitoring and analyzing day and night to find out the infection route at the bach mai hospital .
on saturday night , the vietnamese army 's chemical division disinfected the entire area of bach mai hospital .
covid-19 lockdown .
hanoi hospital lacks food , necessities for 3,500 inmates .
hanoi 's bach mai hospital , locked down saturday as a major covid-19 outbreak area , does n't have enough food and necessities for around 3,500 people .
this includes 800 patients who could neither be discharged nor transferred anywhere else .
about 552 of them are patients with kidney failures who require hemodialysis .
about 100 others are patients ' relatives staying behind to take care of their loved ones , while most family members have been transferred to a quarantine zone in the hoa lac area , said nguyen quang tuan , director of the bach mai hospital .
the 3,500 people trapped inside , including doctors , nurses and other staff , can not go outside to purchase even the most basic things like toothbrushes and toothpaste .
the hospital has had to provide such necessities for them , said tuan .
bach mai 's cafeteria has been identified as a major source of covid-19 infection , it has been closed and all its employees quarantined .
this happened after several employees of the truong sinh company , which supplies food and water to the hospital , were found infected .
the lack of nurses and doctors to treat patients has also been a challenge , as over 200 doctors and nurses of bach mai have had to be quarantined , many in their own homes , after having had close contact with covid-19 patients .
the bach mai hospital , in dong da district , has been identified as a major covid-19 outbreak area in hanoi .
at least 25 confirmed cases were found to be associated with the hospital .
on march 26 , police in hcmc cooperated with the city 's department of information and communications to identify 18 facebook accounts posting this piece of fake news .
of these , eight have removed the post after the city government officially dismissed the rumor , while five accounts in binh dinh , dong nai and quang tri have not yet deleted their posts .
five accounts in foreign countries that have posted the false information have not been dealt with .
since the covid-19 pandemic broke out in vietnam in late january , authorities have slapped fines on hundreds of individuals for posting fake news on covid-19 , including three celebrities .
to date , the covid-19 pandemic has killed more than 33,900 people as it spread to 199 countries and territories .
all new covid-19 infections today linked to bach mai hospital cluster .
six more covid-19 infections in vietnam have been identified as employees of truong sinh company , a food caterer at bach mai hospital in hanoi , taking the nation 's total to 194 as of this morning , the health ministry said .
the total confirmed cases of covid-19 , which is associated with the novel coronavirus , in bach mai hospital has reached 25 , with 16 working at the hospital 's cafeteria .
the hospital has been put on lockdown .
the ministry also made a correction to its announcement issued yesterday evening , stating that the information for the country 's 173rd case coincided with that of the 184th case .
according to the correction , the 184th case is a 42-year-old woman working at the truong sinh firm .
she is the housemate of two other truong sinh employees who tested positive for the coronavirus .
the woman is being treated and isolated at the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district , hanoi .
to date , 25 covid-19 sufferers in the country have made a full recovery and been released from hospital .
three more cases in hcmc are expected to be discharged today .
the test results of 65 others who are receiving treatment at medical facilities nationwide came back positive one to four times .
there were difficult moments but i got over them , he said , thanking the medical staff .
vietnam has so far confirmed 194 covid-19 infections .
with monday 's additions , the number of patients discharged from hospital has jumped to 52 .
the national hospital for tropical diseases is currently treating another 60 covid-19 patients .
the government decided sunday to suspend all international flights to vietnam and limit flights from hanoi and ho chi minh city to other provinces and vice versa in the coming two weeks .
to date , the covid-19 pandemic has killed more than 33,900 people as it spread to 199 countries and territories .
a spanish princess is the world 's first royal to die from the coronavirus .
princess maria teresa of bourbon-parma , a cousin of spain 's king felipe iv , died on thursday at age 86 after testing positive for the novel coronavirus .
she is the first member of a royal family to die from covid-19 .
prince sixto enrique de bourbon , the brother of princess maria teresa , confirmed the passing of his sister in a public facebook post on thursday , which stated a funeral was held in madrid on friday .
people , page six , and the daily mail have also reported on the announcement .
princess maria teresa of bourbon-parma was born in paris in 1933 and became a professor of paris-sorbonne university and complutense university in madrid , where she was known for her views in sociology and women 's rights , according to people .
royals who have publicly confirmed positive tests for the covid-19 virus include prince charles , the 71-year-old heir to the british throne and 62-year-old prince albert ii of monaco .
earlier in march , spain 's king felipe iv and his wife , queen letizia , both tested negative for the covid-19 virus .
spain is reported to have 4,934 deaths as of march 27 .
vietnam confirms five more coronavirus cases , taking total to 179 .
four employees at truong sinh company , which supplies food and catering services to bach mai hospital in hanoi , and a returnee from abroad have tested positive for the coronavirus , bringing the nation 's total confirmed cases to 179 today , march 29 , according to the ministry of health .
four new cases are linked to the bach mai hospital cluster , now tagged as 175th to 178th patients , as they came into close contact with infected people in the hospital .
they are a 57-year-old man and three women .
the 178th patient is being isolated and treated in dai tu district in the northern province of thai nguyen .
the total number of cases in the bach mai hospital cluster has amounted to 16 .
as such , the hanoi government has told the authorities of districts and wards in the city to establish working teams to trace all contacts at the hospital from march 10 , including patients released from the hospital , inpatients and outpatients , patients ' family members , apprentices , doctors and nurses at the hospital to isolate and test them .
the 179th patient , a hanoian , returned to vietnam on flight ek394 on march 18 .
the patient was put under quarantine in thanh hoa province after arrival .
vietnam 's coronavirus infections up to 174 .
five more covid-19 cases , three related to hanoi 's bach mai hospital and two returnees from abroad , have raised vietnam 's tally to 174 .
patient 170 is a 27-year-old man living in kim son district in the northern province of ninh binh .
early this month he worked on a plaster ceiling at a new urban area in hanoi 's gia lam district .
he came into direct contact with four people and a construction supervisor .
he then had no symptoms .
on march 14-15 , he went home as his father was ill .
he stayed at home and did not go out at this time .
on march 20 , he and two of his uncles hired a car to take his father from the ninh binh general hospital in ninh binh to the bach mai hospital in hanoi .
he tested positive for the novel coronavirus for the first time on march 25 and the result was confirmed again saturday .
patient 172 is a daughter-in-law of patient 133 , a 66-year-old woman from lai chau province in northern vietnam who was confirmed positive on march 24 after getting a heart ailment treated at the bach mai hospital for three weeks .
she took care of her mother-in-law for 23 days .
she is asymptomatic and is being monitored .
patient 174 , who came into contact with many people as an employee of the bach mai hospital canteen , developed a high fever and a cough with white sputum two days ago , but had no runny nose or body ache .
so far , 12 infection cases have been linked to the bach mai hospital , one of vietnam 's largest .
earlier saturday , the hospital suspended admitting new patients and has been isolated .
nearly 5,000 staff and patients at the hospital have been ordered to take covid-19 tests .
the two remaining cases are those returning from abroad .
patient 171 , a resident of district 10 in ho chi minh city , is a student in the us .
hcmc closes all tourist attractions in covid-19 fight .
ho chi minh city has shut down all historical sites and tourist attractions from saturday until april 15 as it fights the covid-19 pandemic .
the city had already closed all bars , karaoke parlors , restaurants , and other entertainment facilities in trying to limit the spread of the covid-19 pandemic that has claimed over 27,000 lives globally .
the latest move followed a directive issued by prime minister nguyen xuan phuc , ordering all non-essential businesses around the country to be closed until april 15 as the country enters what he said was a critical two-week stage in its covid-19 fight .
the number of foreign arrivals in ho chi minh city last month fell 52 percent to 346,560 , while tourism revenues dropped 30 percent year-on-year to vnd 8.1 trillion ( $ 348 million ) , the department said .
most popular tourist spots in vietnam , including hanoi and ha long bay in northern vietnam and the ancient town of hoi an in the central region , have closed their doors to visitors .
other famous islands , including con dao , cu lao cham and ly son have temporarily halted tourist operations .
the novel coronavirus has slashed an estimated $ 7 billion in vietnam 's tourism revenues for january-february 2020 , with the number of hotel guests in this period decreasing year-on-year by 60-70 percent , according to official data .
vietnam has 174 confirmed covid-19 cases so far , with most of the active ones being people coming from europe and the us and others who came into close contact with them .
of these 21 have been discharged from hospitals .
vietnam confirms five new covid-19 cases , total up to 153 .
four people in hcmc and one in the northern quang ninh province have tested covid-19 positive , bringing the national tally to 153 as of thursday evening .
two people quarantined upon entering vietnam march 21-23 are among the latest cases .
the other three cases are people who contracted the virus from other covid-19 patients .
patient 149 is a 40-year-old vietnamese man in hanoi 's long bien district who works in hessen state , germany .
on march 23 , he landed in quang ninh 's van don airport on vietnam airlines flight vn36 along with his 68-year-old mother .
he was asymptomatic on arrival .
he was quarantined with two others on the same flight at the quang ninh military school quarantine zone .
he tested positive on march 25 .
207 other passengers on his flight have tested negative .
the man , his mother and two quarantine roommates have been transferred to the ha long city hospital 2 for monitoring and treatment .
patient 150 is a 55-year-old vietnamese man living in tan dinh ward , district 1 , saigon .
he and his wife landed march 13 in hcmc on eva air flight br395 from the us , transiting in taiwan .
the health ministry communiqué on the latest infections says the man returned home from tan son nhat airport , and from march 14-18 , he went to several places and made contact with several people .
he also had a house party with four people on march 14 , went to a noodles soup stall on han thuyen street on march 15 , had a meeting at the transimex company with 24 people and another party in a restaurant on march 16 .
on march 18 he met friends in nha be district and went for a health check at the family medical clinic on le duan street .
on march 23 , he developed a sore throat , cough , and fever .
after tests showed he was covid-19 positive , he has been quarantined and treated at the can gio hospital .
patient 151 is a 45-year-old brazilian woman residing in thao dien ward , district 2 , saigon .
she works at the gia dinh shoe company , which has two branches- one in dong nai province 's vinh cuu district and the other in district 2 's an phu dong ward .
she is a co-worker and had close contact with patient 124 , a 52-year-old brazilian man who got infected after going to the buddha bar with another infected man .
patient 151 and patient 124 often went to work in a car with a personal driver , sharing trips to the two company branches and to a starbucks shop in district 2 .
patient 151 also went to several places , including a food stall in dong nai 's bien hoa city on march 13 , the an phu supermarket on march 16 , and the hue phong factory in go vap district on march 19 .
she was tested and quarantined in a military school in cu chi district on march 23 .
the driver is also quarantined there .
patient 152 is a 27-year-old vietnamese woman residing in tay thanh ward , tan phu district , saigon .
six more covid-19 patients recover , three to be released from hospital .
among the 37 patients that tested negative for the new coronavirus in vietnam , six have recovered and three are expected to be discharged from hospital today , march 27 .
three of those who recovered , tagged as the 45th , 53rd and 66th cases , tested negative for the flu-like virus four times and will be transferred to other medical centers for further quarantine .
besides this , three other coronavirus patients at danang hospital have been declared free of covid-19 , the disease caused by the novel coronavirus .
their test results came back negative three times consecutively and they will be discharged today , nguyen thanh trung , deputy director of the hospital , confirmed on thursday evening .
two of them are british nationals and one is a local woman , also known as the 22nd , 23rd , and 35th cases .
according to the danang health department , the three patients , now in stable condition , will continue to be quarantined for another 14 days after being discharged , in accordance with regulations .
vietnam so far has reported 153 covid-19 infections , including 17 who made a full recovery and were discharged from hospital .
three are in critical condition while most of the others are stable .
do n't leave the city , hcmc medical staff ordered .
the hcmc administration has instructed medical workers not to leave the city and be on call for anti-covid-19 work .
hcmc chairman nguyen thanh phong has also asked the city 's health department to invest in upgrading facilities before march 31 to be able to test more than 5,000 swab samples per day .
the department is requested to direct hospitals and health facilities to comply with covid-19 prevention measures for the next 15 days .
it is also asked to arrange and rearrange areas in medical examination and treatment facilities as also adjust the operation process to ensure that there are no places that are too crowded .
hospitals must refrain from holding meetings in person and make these an online activity .
health workers should not gather in large numbers and should refrain from attending events like weddings and funerals .
they should also not eat out .
if there is any gathering that they have to attend , medical workers must keep a distance of 2 m and not gather more than three people , wear a mask and other personal protective gear as needed .
health workers and their family members must limit going out unless it is an emergency .
hospitals have already strengthened measures to closely monitor visits by patients ' relatives towards minimizing contact between outsiders and health workers as well as patients .
seven covid-19 patients in hcmc to be discharged .
the health ministry friday night declared seven patients in hcmc free of the covid-19 virus after testing negative three times in a row .
all seven patients were treated at the cu chi field hospital , around 70 kilometers ( 43 miles ) northwest of downtown hcmc .
they will be discharged from the hospital on sunday and monday .
after discharge , they will continue to be quarantined at medical facilities near their homes and their health monitored .
among the patients to be discharged are a 25-year-old man in tan binh district , who was confirmed infected with the virus march 13 after working and having dinner with an infected businesswoman in the south central province of binh thuan , and a 53-year-old czech citizen who had come into contact with some italian nationals in his home country before flying to saigon and being confirmed positive on march 14 .
the others are a 36-year-old woman in district 2 who flew back from switzerland , a 28-year-old woman from go vap district who 'd come into contact with her colleague in tan binh district , and a female overseas student in district 7 who returned from the us .
the trio were confirmed positive for novel coronavirus on march 17 .
the two remaining patients are a 48-year-old woman who resides in the mekong delta province of bac lieu who returned from london on march 15 and was confirmed infected on march 19 .
and a 21-year-old vietnamese woman living in binh thanh district returning from spain , who was confirmed positive on march 20 .
under health ministry regulations , a person infected with the novel coronavirus is deemed healthy once she or he shows no sign of fever for three days and tests negative twice in three days .
other signs include improved clinical symptoms , overall stable status and vital signs , normal organ function and improved chest x-ray readings .
at the moment , 21 other covid-19 patients in vietnam have tested negative twice and are waiting for another test to confirm them free of the virus before being discharged .
meanwhile , 23 other patients have tested negative for the first time .
as of saturday morning , the nation had confirmed 169 and discharged 20 , including three in da nang city on friday .
the covid-19 pandemic has so far killed more than 27,200 people in 199 countries and territories .
vietnam 's coronavirus infections hit 163 .
the ministry of health , march 27 , confirmed 10 new cases of coronavirus infections , with six linked to bach mai hospital and hcmc-based buddha bar , taking the country 's covid-19 tally to 163 .
three cases linked to bach mai hospital are an 88-year-old woman confirmed as the 161st patient , a 63-year-old female hanoian as her daughter-in-law , and a 43-year-old woman .
the 161st patient , residing in hung yen province , tested positive for the coronavirus on march 25 after she had shared a treatment room at hanoi-based bach mai hospital with the 133rd patient from march 17 to 22 .
she had suffered from intraventricular hemorrhage since march 17 , and was treated at the hospital .
her daughter-in-law , confirmed as the 162nd patient , was sent to the national hospital of tropical diseases in dong anh district on march 25 and tested positive for the virus .
she had earlier taken care of the 161st patient at bach mai hospital .
the 163rd , a niece of the 161st patient , also contracted the virus from the hospital when she went to bach mai hospital to look after the elderly woman .
three others linked to buddha bar in hcmc 's district 2 and tagged as the 157th , 158th and 159th include a briton and two brazilians .
they had close contact with other coronavirus patients at the bar .
the 157th , a 31-year-old woman , are under quarantine at cu chi-based field hospital , while the two male brazilians are being isolated at hcmc hospital for tropical diseases .
apart from the six patients , the other four new cases are those flying home on march 21 to 23 from other countries .
they were put under quarantine after arrival , the local media reported .
the 154th , 155th , and 156th patients , who are vietnamese overseas students , came back to vietnam from the uk on the same flight with the 145th case , which landed in can tho city on march 22 .
meanwhile , a 30-year-old vietnamese woman confirmed as the 160th patient , who resides in lam dong province , developed symptoms of sore throat and cough on march 20 .
a month ago , she stayed in madrid , spain and had close contact with her older sister , who got infected with covid-19 .
she is being treated at a hospital in hcmc 's outlying district of can gio .
hcmc to fine those without masks in public places .
hcmc , the country 's most populous city , plans to fine individuals who do not wear face masks in public places due to heightened concerns over the acceleration of the coronavirus ' spread , said city leaders at a meeting on thursday .
hcmc party committee secretary nguyen thien nhan said the city government is determined not to let foreign nationals increase imported cases .
also , vietnamese people who return home from abroad are subject to a mandatory 14-day quarantine period .
limiting travel and forcing people to wear face masks are two key steps the municipal government is taking to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus , according to nhan .
he added that the municipal department of heath must identify brands of high-quality face masks for the public , while local authorities must release a list of places that sell them .
he noted that wearing a face mask and keeping a safe physical distance from other people are the simplest and most effective disease prevention measures available .
covid-19 is more dangerous than an enemy since ( it does not follow ) rules .
this is a favorable measure for fighting the pandemic , he said .
italy , spain and the united kingdom were late in preventing coronavirus outbreaks and are suffering serious consequences .
by contrast , japan and south korea had strong and quick responses , so they have achieved positive outcomes in their fight against the disease , according to mr nhan .
he cited statistics from 10 countries , noting that the number of people infected with the disease reached 100 within a month but could later increase to 1,000 within 10 days .
prince charles tests positive for coronavirus , queen elizabeth in good health .
prince charles , the 71-year-old heir to the british throne , has tested positive for coronavirus but is in good health and is now self-isolating in scotland with mild symptoms .
charles , the eldest son of queen elizabeth , is displaying what clarence house said were mild symptoms but remains in good health and has been working from his birkhall residence in scotland .
his wife , camilla , 72 years old , tested negative .
flights carrying vietnamese home to hanoi suspended .
all flights carrying vietnamese citizens to hanoi are suspended starting thursday until march 31 as isolation facilities in the capital city are full .
the transport ministry said wednesday that quarantine facilities in hanoi can no longer admit new people .
it asked the civil aviation authority of vietnam to direct incoming flights to land at van don airport in the northern province of quang ninh .
on wednesday , the noi bai airport received 500 vietnamese in four flights arriving from russia , japan , and thailand .
a vietnam airlines flight from germany with 165 passengers was directed to land at the van don airport .
all passengers were sent to centralized quarantine facilities .
also starting wednesday , all vietnamese carriers had suspended international flights .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc had earlier ordered the suspension of all international flights to vietnam as the country restricted entry by air , road , and sea .
a few foreign carriers were still carrying vietnamese passengers home .
flights carrying vietnamese home to saigon 's tan son nhat airport were also suspended for the same reason from wednesday .
such flights are being directed to can tho airport in the mekong delta .
before the suspension , hcmc 's tan son nhat and hanoi 's noi bai airports , the largest in the country , had been receiving a large number of vietnamese passengers returning home from foreign countries amidst escalating fears over the covid-19 pandemic , overloading local quarantine facilities .
rice traders cry foul over sudden export ban .
rice traders are unhappy with the sudden government ban on exports that has million dollar worth of cargo idling at ports .
vu thanh son , ceo of the company , said that he was surprised to learn about the sudden ban , which means $ 2 million worth of hapro rice on its way to the philippines and malaysia are now stuck in the saigon port in ho chi minh city .
contracts have been signed and money has been transferred .
the ban could result in a loss of reputation for the company and lawsuits from our partners .
another exporter , co may group in southern dong thap province , has had to suspend the export of four rice containers to australia worth vnd 1.2 billion ( $ 50,700 ) , which was due this week .
we have been preparing a month for this order .
the ban will cost us a lot of human and financial resources , said a company leader .
the loc troi group in southern an giang province has also had to cancel two rice orders on the way to the port .
group chairman huynh van thon said they would have to renegotiate and do not know how the buyers will react to the news .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc ordered the export ban to be imposed 0 a.m wednesday after the government noticed an unusual 32.6 percent year-on-year upsurge in rice export value in the first two months of this year .
exports to china surged seven times in this period , according to official figures .
deputy minister of industry and trade tran quoc khanh wednesday said that if the export surge persists in the upcoming months , vietnam could face a domestic shortage of rice .
rice exporters have said they agree with the ban and the need to ensure food security , but the government needed to give them a time frame to conclude their export orders to minimize losses .
vietnam confirms seven new covid-19 cases .
vietnam has confirmed seven new covid-19 cases on wednesday , bringing the national tally to 141 .
six people in hanoi , including one doctor , and one person in central da nang city have been confirmed to be the latest novel coronavirus patients in vietnam .
vietnam has confirmed 141 covid-19 cases so far , of whom 17 have been cured and discharged from hospitals .
the covid-19 pandemic has spread to 196 countries and territories , claiming 18,500 lives .
only essential staff members and family members can attend , the ncaa said in its statement , which came just hours after the world health organization declared the outbreak of the novel coronavirus , known as covid-19 , a pandemic .
this decision is in the best interest of public health , including that of coaches , administrators , fans and , most importantly , our student-athletes , ncaa president mark emmert said in a statement .
we recognize the opportunity to compete in an ncaa national championship is an experience of a lifetime for the students and their families .
with the tournament less than a week away , the ncaa had been looking into alternative plans to keep the disease from spreading at its games .
the tournament is scheduled to begin march 17 in dayton , ohio .
japan is now testing a robot cooking soba noodles at tokyo station .
the robot , put at higashi-koganei station on railway co. 's chuo line , is capable of making 40 soba dishes an hour , about the same as a cook 's performance .
the robot takes charge of boiling the noodles while the staffs take charge of putting them on a plate and giving them to the customer .
based on the information from the east japan railway company , the trial period might be extended to april 15 with the aim to determine whether the robot can work well enough and satisfy the expectations of its noodle-loving customers or not .
according to a staff , by virtue of the robot , it is possible to beat the kitchen heat in the summer as well as the risk of burning from scalding noodle water .
besides , while the robot boils up noodles , the chef is given an opportunity to have time to do something else , such as dealing with customers , cooking fried food and clearing away dishes .
vietnam suspends rice exports to ensure food security .
a decision issued by vietnam customs deputy director general mai xuan thanh asks all provincial and municipal customs departments to stop registering customs declarations , as well as receiving and clearing documents for rice export shipments starting tuesday .
rice shipments with customs declarations completed before tuesday will be unaffected .
the decision follows the prime minister 's statement at a cabinet meeting on the imperative of ensuring food safety amidst the complicated developments of the covid-19 pandemic .
the ministry said it would reassess the actual output of the winter-spring rice crop , the amount of rice to be exported in signed contracts and the actual amount in businesses ' inventories before suggesting a solution .
vietnam is currently the world 's third largest rice exporter after india and thailand .
last year , the country exported 6.37 million tons of rice worth $ 2.81 billion , with the top markets being the philippines at over 2.1 million tons , ivory coast , over 580,000 tons , malaysia , over 550,000 tons and china , 477,000 tons .
over the past two months , vietnam 's rice exports to a number of countries have increased sharply following the covid-19 pandemic .
according to a report by the department of agricultural products processing and market development , vietnam exported 895,000 tons of rice worth $ 410 million in the first two months of the year , a 27 percent increase in volume and 32.6 percent rise in value year-on-year .
the philippines continued to be the leading market for vietnam 's rice exports , but both the volume and the value of rice exported to this market were lower than last year .
on the other hand , rice exports to mozambique , china and angola increased 5.04 times , 2.76 times and 2.57 times respectively .
the average export price of rice in january was $ 478 per ton , a 7 percent increase over the same period last year .
the ministry of agriculture and rural development has said that it would closely monitor the market 's developments and increase , if possible , the total area of rice fields for the fall-winter crop from 750,000 hectares to 800,000 hectares .
malaria drug not approved for coronavirus treatment .
hydroxychloroquine , a drug used to treat malaria patients , has not been approved as a cure for the coronavirus by the ministry of health due to its harmful side effects .
the ministry 's drug administration on march 23 sent urgent dispatches to the country 's provincial and municipal departments of health and drug stores nationwide on the management of the malaria drug .
the dispatches came after residents rushed to buy chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine due to rumors of its success in coronavirus treatment us .
in the dispatches , the administration warned residents that using drugs containing chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine to treat and prevent coronavirus could endanger their lives .
chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are prescription drugs that are only used under the dosing instructions of doctors or pharmacists , according to nguyen tan dat , deputy head of the drug administration .
bach mai hospital has reported a poisoning case where the individual took 15 malaria pills to prevent infection with covid-19 , the disease caused by the coronavirus , local media reported .
the hcmc center for disease control and many doctors also advised residents not to buy and stock up on chloroquine yesterday .
dat noted , residents should not buy or use chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine as their side effects include renal failure , hepatic disease and vision changes .
to ensure efficiency in coronavirus prevention and control efforts , the drug administration asked drugstores nationwide not to raise the prices of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine and not to hoard drugs containing either of these ingredients to avoid a shortage of the drugs on the local market .
two killed as tanker catches fire off vietnam 's southern coast .
fire engulfed a tanker carrying 700 cubic meters of oil on the dong nai river monday night , fatally burning two crew members .
there were three people on board at the time of the incident , and one of them is still missing by tuesday morning .
the hd06 vessel with 1,000 tons load capacity , registered in the mekong delta 's long an province , was sailing near the bien hoa inland container depot in bien hoa town of dong nai province as its engine exploded and started burning at around 6.30 p.m monday .
eyewitnesses said the fire rose tens of meters high and quickly spread to the cabin where the three were staying .
rescuers rushed to the scene right after they saw the fire , which took them two hours to put off .
they found two crew members suffering critical burns in the cabin and rushed them to hospital but they succumbed to the injuries later .
police are investigating further and continuing searching for the remaining crew member .
flights carrying vietnamese home to hcmc airport suspended .
all flights carrying vietnamese citizens to hcmc 's tan son nhat airport are suspended as isolation facilities in the city are overloaded .
the suspension takes effect from wednesday and will last at least until the end of this month .
the transport ministry asked the civil aviation administration of vietnam to announce the suspension to all airlines in a bid to ease the pressure on overloaded quarantine facilities in the city .
earlier , city officials had said that they expected to receive 17,000 vietnamese coming home from abroad this week .
earlier on sunday , vietnam suspended entry for all foreign nationals , including those of vietnamese origin and family members with visa waivers .
only vietnamese nationals and foreigners having diplomatic and official passports such as business managers , experts , and high-skilled workers will be allowed to enter the country at this time , and all entrants will be quarantined for 14 days .
over the past few days , hcmc 's tan son nhat and hanoi 's noi bai airports , the largest in the country , have been receiving a large number of vietnamese passengers returning home from foreign countries amidst escalating fears over the covid-19 pandemic , overloading local quarantine facilities .
nguyen tan binh , director of the hcmc health department , said the city has placed more than 7,000 people under centralized quarantine and around 1,000 at home .
on monday , 27 flights landed at the tan son nhat airport and all passengers were sent to centralized quarantine areas .
centralized isolation facilities in the city have around 23,800 beds and the city is calling for hotels and resorts to join the pandemic fight , serving as quarantine centers .
national flag carrier vietnam airlines has announced the suspension of all international flights starting march 25 .
other vietnamese carriers have also suspended or cut the frequency of international flights .
currently , only foreign airlines are transporting passengers into the country .
the country has recorded 107 new infections since march 6 , with 106 still under treatment and one having recovered last week .
16 other patients were discharged last month after treatment .
of the active cases , 12 have tested negative either once or twice .
the covid-19 pandemic has killed nearly 16,500 people , spreading to 195 countries and territories .
vietnam confirms 122nd coronavirus infection .
a vietnamese woman returning from thailand is vietnam 's latest covid-19 patient , bringing the country 's tally to 122 infections .
patient 122 is a 24-year-old woman hailing from the central province of ha tinh .
her test results were confirmed by the da nang center for diseases control on monday afternoon , the ministry of health said .
she worked as a bartender in bangkok and had previously come into contact with many people without a face mask on .
on march 17 , she went to a bar in bangkok to meet a friend .
three days later , she boarded flight tg947 from suvarnabhumi international airport and landed in da nang city .
she was immediately taken by the da nang center for disease control into quarantine at the city 's center for national defense education .
she was tested positive on monday .
a friend of hers is currently quarantined in huong son district in ha tinh .
da nang has recorded five covid-19 cases in total , two vietnamese including patient 122 , and three foreigners .
vietnam has recorded 105 new infections since march 6 , 104 still under treatment and one recovered last week .
many of the active cases are vietnamese nationals returning from europe and the us and foreigners visiting from the same regions .
starting sunday , in an unprecedented move , vietnam suspended entry for all foreign nationals , including those of vietnamese origin and family members with visa waivers .
the covid-19 pandemic has killed over 14,700 people globally , spreading to 192 countries and territories thus far .
two cambodia returnees latest covid-19 patients in vietnam .
two vietnamese returning to the southern province of tay ninh from cambodia have raised the total coronavirus infections in the country to 118 .
patient 117 is a 30-year-old man who resides in long an province , a ho chi minh city 's neighbor .
he went on tour to phnom penh , cambodia on march 9 and started to cough and have shortness of breath , two typical symptoms of covid-19 , on march 16 .
he returned to vietnam at moc bai international border gate in tay ninh , also a hcmc 's neighbor , on march 19 and was quarantined at tay ninh general hospital where he was tested positive .
the chest x-ray shows his lung has been partly damaged .
patient 118 is a woman , 23 , who has chronic bronchitis .
she is a resident in the mekong delta 's province of an giang who works at a casino called galaxy in cambodia .
she also entered vietnam at moc bai gate on march 19 .
she was sent to tay ninh general hospital for quarantine after she was found running a fever , coughing and feeling hard to breath .
x-ray images also show damages in a part of her lungs .
these two mark the first source of transmission of the virus from cambodia in vietnam .
cambodia shut borders with vietnam from 11.59 p.m march 20 to alleviate the burden on both vietnamese and cambodians in quarantine .
on monday morning , vietnam has recorded three new cases of covid-19 , including a doctor .
by far , the nation has had 118 infections .
10 patients in vietnam test covid-19 negative .
10 patients being quarantined and treated for covid-19 have tested negative for the novel coronavirus , vietnam 's health ministry confirmed sunday .
the three patients who tested negative for the second time are a 26-year-old hanoi woman coming back from london and confirmed infected on march 6 , and two british tourists diagnosed on march 8 .
all three are being treated at the national hospital of tropical disease in hanoi .
the facility has 34 covid-19 patients include 22 vietnamese and 12 foreigners .
among seven patients who have tested negative once are three in hanoi .
a british tourist , a vietnamese flight attendant and a 25-year-old french woman .
they are awaiting their second results at the national hospital of tropical disease in hanoi .
the other four are two british tourists and being treated in da nang , one british tourist in hue and a vietnamese woman in hcmc .
the health ministry said most of the patients are in stable condition with no fever , cough or breathing difficulties , and their chest x-ray readings are normal .
a few patients who showed signs of pneumonia were treated with a specific regimen for the disease .
most recently on march 20 , a 27-year-old vietnamese man found infected with covid-19 after returning from south korea was discharged from hospital after having no fever and being tested negative three times in a row .
coronavirus infections in vietnam exceed 110 .
vietnam has reported 19 new coronavirus infections by sunday night , the largest daily jump since covid-19 , the disease caused by the new coronavirus , broke out in the country , taking vietnam 's total number to 113 .
the health ministry has confirmed 14 new cases of covid-19 on march 22 .
these are residents in hcmc , mekong delta provinces , and northern localities .
especially , among the seven new cases reported in the north , most of them are vietnamese students studying in france , the united kingdom , and the united states .
the 100th case , aged 55 , lives in hcmc 's district 8 .
he was required to self-isolate at home after returning from the malaysian capital city of kuala lumpur on march 3 .
however , he went to the jamiul anwar mosque in the district for prayer five times a day from march 4 to 17 .
in an isolation center of dong thap province , the local health authority found four more cases being infected with the flu-like virus .
they , tagged as 101st to 104th patients , were all passengers on vietnam airlines flight vn50 departing from the united kingdom to can tho city on wednesday .
the 105th and 106th patients travelled on airasia flight ak575 from malaysia to can tho city on wednesday morning .
they are being monitored at a quarantine facility tra vinh province .
as for the new cases in northern vietnam , the 107th patient is a local 25-year-old woman in hanoi .
she is a daughter of a nurse at bach mai hospital who is vietnam 's 86th confirmed case of covid-19 .
the other cases from the 108th to the 113th patients include vietnamese overseas students returning to vietnam from the u.k. , the us , france from march 17 to 19 , through noi bai international airport , and a lecturer at a university in the uk returning to hanoi on march 15 via bangkok of thailand .
the seven cases in the north remain in stable condition and are being quarantined at the national hospital for tropical diseases in hanoi 's dong anh suburban district .
politburo calls for unity to combat coronavirus .
the risk of community spread remains high in the country , so the politburo is calling for unity to secure success in the fight against the coronavirus .
the politburo , the party 's key decision-making body , has told authorities at all levels to contain and control the coronavirus outbreak with the highest level of responsibility .
they must take urgent measures to support the business community to maintain their production and business activities , take care of residents , and draw up economic recovery plans .
steps need to be taken to minimize sources of infection , especially from abroad .
detect cases of infections as soon as possible .
conduct epidemiology , classification , screening and quarantine properly .
and provide effective treatment .
authorities should also raise public awareness of protective measures , health declarations , and health care facilities where suspected covid-19 cases .
we must not be complacent about initial outcomes , and must continue taking more drastic , appropriate and effective measures to stem the outbreak , the politburo stressed .
for the past two weeks , vietnam has seen a surge in new coronavirus cases , most of them imported from europe and the united kingdom .
the current number of confirmed cases in vietnam is 94 , with 17 of them having recovered .
vietnam ranks 105th in economic freedom index .
vietnam 's economic freedom score is 58.8 , making its economy the 105th freest among 180 countries and territories in the 2020 index of economic freedom by the us based heritage foundation .
the research and educational institution said in the report that vietnam 's overall score has increased by 3.5 points due to a dramatic gain in fiscal health .
the southeast asian nation is ranked 21st among 42 countries in the asia-pacific region , and its overall score is slightly below the regional and world averages .
the vietnamese economy has gradually been climbing the ranks of the mostly unfree since 2011 .
strong gross domestic product ( gdp ) growth over the past five years has mirrored this improvement , driven by export-focused manufacturing and processing sectors .
economic freedom will be enhanced in vietnam if the government can successfully expand economic liberalization by promoting international trade and restructuring state-owned enterprises .
coronavirus patient 's parents donate over vnd 6 billion for coronavirus fight .
businessman johnathan hanh nguyen and his wife , le hong thuy tien , parents of tien nguyen , the 32nd coronavirus case in vietnam , have donated vnd 6.237 billion ( nearly us $ 265,000 ) to help fight the fast-spreading coronavirus .
talking to tuoi tre online , a representative of imex pan pacific group , which is owned by nguyen , noted that the money will be used to buy nine negative pressure machines for quarantine rooms in hcmc .
the representative remarked that further information on the donation has not been published because the corporation has many other charitable plans besides this donation and is waiting for tien nguyen 's recovery .
tien nguyen tested positive for coronavirus on march 9 after returning to vietnam from london on a private jet .
she has been quarantined at hcmc hospital for tropical diseases since then , and this morning , march 18 , she received her first negative test result .
tien manages a charitable fund under her parents ' corporation .
she is the younger sister of louis nguyen , husband of model and actress tang thanh ha .
vietnamese teacher among 50 finalists .
vietnam 's ha anh phuong is among the 50 finalists for the 2020 global teacher prize for her contributions to education in remote areas .
from the 50 lists , a prize of $ 1 million will be given to an exceptional teacher who has made an outstanding contribution to their profession , according to the varkey foundation , a british charitable foundation that gives the award .
phuong , 29 , teaches english at huong can high school in a mountainous area of thanh son district in phu tho province in the north , where many people can not get good education for economic and geographical reasons .
ninety percent of students in her school are of ethnic background .
herself a muong , vietnam 's third-largest out of 53 minority groups , phuong decided to become an english teacher after watching a vietnamese documentary about how teachers had knocked on people 's doors in the remote mountainous areas to persuade them to send their children to school .
after getting a master of tesol at hanoi university , she decided to return to phu tho and become a teacher there .
in her school in the remote , mountainous area , students have little chance to practice english with foreigners , which often leads to low language competence , shyness , poor intercultural awareness , and lack of interest .
phuong has helped her students tackle this challenge by using online teaching models , connecting them with children in schools worldwide through skype .
some of her innovations have significantly improved student outcomes and are clearly seen in their national exam results .
last year all her students , who had previously been low achievers in english , passed the final exam .
known as the 4.0 innovative teacher in vietnam , she has now taught students online on four continents ( africa , europe , asia , and america ) , and is an active member of a microsoft educational community that gathers global teachers to design lessons and engage in professional development .
last year she was awarded the innovative and creative teacher prize by the ministry of education and training .
with the new coronavirus epidemic still raging and schools closing , phuong 's online teaching model has special significance .
my students say they can study and lie in bed at the same time and can cough anytime without facing discrimination , she wrote in a facebook post about teaching students at home .
student from paris is vietnam 's covid-19 'patient 92 ' .
a 21-year-old vietnamese student from france has tested positive for the novel coronavirus , bringing the country 's covid-19 tally to 92 .
the health ministry said saturday that the man , a resident of da lat in the central highlands , flew on qatar airways flight qr40 from paris to doha on march 16 , before landing march 17 at saigon 's tan son nhat airport on flight qr970 ( seat 18d ) .
asymptomatic on arrival , he was quarantined in district 12 .
a day later , he developed fever , sore throat , and a dry cough .
he was transferred to the cu chi field hospital on the same day .
his samples tested positive the first time on march 19 and the second time on march 21 .
he 's being treated at the cu chi facility .
vietnam has confirmed 92 covid-19 cases so far , 17 of whom have been cured and discharged from hospitals .
hanoians to receive 1 million free face masks .
from now to the end of march , residents in hà nội will be offered five free face masks in public areas , shops , and supermarkets in the city .
people can register in advance and pick up their free masks at these areas .
the program has been initiated by icheck corporation ( code scanner application ) and liz ' n health ( american cosmeceuticals brand ) in response to prime minister nguyễn xuân phúc 's call for people to team up to fight against the covid-19 pandemic , according to vũ thế tuấn , ceo of icheck .
he said , as technology is our advantage , we want to donate carbon activated protective masks imported from the us for the people in a fair , safe and transparent way .
people can register for their free masks at , to avoid big crowds where the risk is very high .
they will receive a qr that can then be used at shopping centres such as big c supermarket , aeon mall , kids plaza , pico mart , sói biển food shop chain and lotte mart .
việt nam reports 91 covid-19 cases .
a british pilot working for national carrier vietnam airlines has been identified as the latest covid-19 patient in việt nam among the four new cases confirmed by the ministry of health on friday evening .
they bring the total number of covid-19 infections in việt nam to 91 .
the 43-year-old pilot , residing in hcm city 's district 2 , was a passenger on flight vn10 from london to việt nam on february 8 .
he confirmed he piloted flight vn272 from hcm city to hà nội on march 16 and flight vn607 from hà nội to hcm city later the same day .
he started to show signs of fever and cough on march 17 and was hospitalised at the hcm city hospital for tropical diseases on march 18 .
he tested positive for the sars-cov-2 virus at the hospital on march 18 and by the hcm city pasteur institute on march 20 .
another patient is a 25-year-old vietnamese student in the uk who lives in hà nội 's hà đông district .
she returned to việt nam from the uk via nội bài international airport in hà nội on march 12 .
she had self-quarantined at home from march 12 but started to experience breathing difficulties on march 16 .
she subsequently tested positive for the virus .
a 22-year-old female in hcm city 's district 7 is another patient .
she was flown from the us to japan and then from japan to việt nam 's tân sơn nhất international airport in hcm city on nippon airlines flight nh831 on late march 17 .
her sample was taken on the early morning of march 18 and tested positive .
the last patient is a 21-year-old girl in hcm city 's bình thạnh district .
she has been a hotel internship in barcelona for the last month .
she took emirates airlines flight ek188 from barcelona to dubai and then flight ek392 to việt nam 's tân sơn nhất airport on march 16 .
she had a slight fever and cough when she entered việt nam and was immediately put under quarantine .
she then tested positive for the virus .
all the patients are now under quarantine and in stable conditions .
celebrities help mekong delta mitigate impacts of drought , saltwater intrusion .
many celebrities have donated billions of dong to help people in the mekong delta cope with the ongoing drought and saltwater intrusion .
singer thuy tien has donated vnd 50 million to install desalination machines , which can process saline water into freshwater .
she is also mobilizing money from other people to get more such machines .
as of march 16 , thuy tien had received nearly vnd 9.5 billion , mainly from donations via her bank account .
the singer installed the first desalination machine worth vnd 800 million in tan phuoc commune , go cong dong district , tien giang province on march 13 .
thuy tien said she is going to provide desalination machines for seven other communes .
each machine can turn 3,000-5,000 liters of saltwater into drinking water per hour .
if you know any localities in urgent need of freshwater , please let me know .
thank everyone for your love of mekong delta people , thuy tien wrote on her facebook .
singer dong nhi and her husband ong cao thang have transferred vnd 50 million to thuy tien .
mc dai nghia has handed over three desalination machines to the areas most affected by drought and saltwater intrusion in mo cay bac district , ben tre province .
he will provide 144 machines and 330 large water tanks to the province .
on march 13 , singer phi nhung gave 50 water tanks worth vnd 100 million and 500 liters of freshwater to hung nhuong commune , giong trom district , ben tre province .
comedian viet huong has sent a desalination machine worth vnd 38 million to binh dai district , ben tre province .
huong said she will provide desalination equipment to three other localities .
model ngoc trinh has donated vnd 200 million to buy desalination machines for five mekong delta provinces and is calling for other people to follow suit .
each machine costs vnd 40 million and is capable of processing 500 liters of saltwater into freshwater an hour , the model wrote in a facebook post .
drought has parched many rice fields and fruit farms and caused severe freshwater shortages in mekong delta provinces such as tien giang , ben tre , and tra vinh , thanh nien newspaper reports .
vietnamese woman claims she was attacked in australia for wearing a mask .
a vietnamese woman living in australia has claimed her and her brother were attacked on a train because they were both wearing face masks .
phuong anh , who also uses the name amber mai , said during the attack no one else on the train tried to help .
she claims she was verbally assaulted and had a drink thrown on her before the man tried to punch her .
phuong anh wrote on facebook .
today on the train , me and my brother got assaulted for wearing a mask .
the guy verbally assaulted us , then threw drink on us , and physically tried to hit me after the argument .
and this is not the first time i experienced this .
since she took to social media to reveal the incident , her post has been shared more than 3,000 times and she has been inundated with messages of support .
she wrote , this is hurtful .
i have always been telling my family , my brother beautiful amazing things about australia .
that was the reason they decided to let my brother come here to study with me .
he has only arrived to australia 4 months ago , and this is what he got to experience .
i feel ashamed .
phuong anh , who is originally from hà nội , said the matter is being investigated by police in australia .
she added , the saddest part was that despite our effort to hold the guy from leaving the train station , no one stepped up .
i guess people might have wanted to help , but seems like it was not serious enough or they were not sure what was going on .
by thursday afternoon , australia has recorded a total 687 confirmed cases of covid-19 , almost 10 times the amount currently confirmed in việt nam .
vietnam prepares medicines for 10,000 covid-19 patients .
medical companies in vietnam have been asked to ensure adequate supplies of medicines to serve at least 10,000 cases of covid-19 , the disease caused by the new coronavirus .
the drug administration of vietnam , under the ministry of health , sent this request to medical manufacturers and importers in the country , in preparation for a scenario when the pandemic worsens .
these businesses were told to ramp up the supply of pharmaceutical drugs and materials and work out business plans to meet the demand for health care facilities and essential medicines to treat the potential number of covid-19 patients .
there are no vaccines or drugs available to fight the new coronavirus at present .
the health ministry 's main method of treatment for covid-19 is supportive care .
that means doctors treat the symptoms of infected patients and detect and address respiratory or kidney failures or other organ failures .
also , the ministries of health and industry and trade have just convened an emergency meeting to discuss the production and supply of face masks to fight the spread of the pandemic .
vietnam has managed the domestic supply of mask materials , potentially producing 30 million face masks by the end of march , according to a representative from the ministry of industry and trade .
one of the critical components of medical masks is nonwoven fabrics made from polypropylene resins .
vietnam has exported this material for a long time , said dang hoang an , deputy minister of industry and trade .
to produce 1.5 million medical face masks , one ton of polypropylene resins is needed to produce one ton of nonwoven fabrics .
the country is in need of 30 million masks by the end of the month , equivalent to 20 tons of polypropylene resins needed , while local manufacturers are able to generate some 450 tons of this plastic resin annually .
accordingly , vietnam can still supply enough materials to produce 100 million masks , the deputy minister noted .
two vietnamese americans die of covid-19 .
two elderly vietnamese americans living in the state of washington have died of covid-19 , being the first overseas vietnamese killed by the fast-spreading disease .
the vietnamese embassy in the us confirmed that one of the victims is a 74-year-old woman .
she was pronounced dead on monday , us time , in seattle city of washington , the state with the highest death cases of covid-19 in the us .
this person was found to have symptoms of the covid-19 , the pneumonia illness caused by the new coronavirus , on march 9 when she was residing at a nursing home .
she was hospitalized and died one week later .
the second case has been confirmed as a blind person who was living at another nursing home in washington .
this person started to run a fever last thursday before testing positive for the new coronavirus .
admitted to hospital on the same day , the patient died 24 hours later .
it is reported that the second nursing home had already recorded covid-19 deaths but other people who had come in close contact with that victim were not tested and checked .
these two death cases are the first vietnamese in the world that have been killed by the covid-19 epidemic , which is affecting 173 countries and territories and has claimed lives of almost 9,000 .
the number of infections in the us has jumped to 9,261 , with 150 deaths .
vietnam has so far recorded 76 infected cases , including 60 active ones , and no deaths .
vietnam confirms 7 new coronavirus cases .
vietnam on wednesday confirmed seven new coronavirus infection cases with four in hanoi and one in hcmc .
the two remaining patients are in the northern provinces of hai duong and phu tho , according to the ministry of health .
this brings the total number of covid-19 cases to 75 .
thousands of overseas vietnamese return home to shun coronavirus pandemic .
as many as 1095 passengers on flights from europe returned to vietnam today , march 18 , including 999 vietnamese nationals and 96 foreigners , while over 5,700 others will also fly back to vietnam from southeast asian countries .
of the 96 foreigners , none were traveling from the schengen zone or the united kingdom .
among the 999 vietnamese citizens , 325 were returning from the united kingdom , france , and germany , which have been hard hit by the coronavirus , while the remainder did not depart from virus-affected areas .
of the total 78 flights carrying back over 5,700 passengers from southeast asian nations to vietnam , hanoi-based noi bai international airport is expected to receive 22 flights with 1,620 passengers on board , thanh nien newspaper reported .
danang city will see seven flights with 324 passengers on board , while cam ranh international airport in khanh hoa province and lam dong-based lien khuong airport will receive two flights each today .
over 3150 passengers on 43 flights will return to vietnam through hcmc-based tan son nhat international airport , while the airports in can tho city and on phu quoc island are expected to welcome one flight each .
a representative of noi bai international airport noted that immigration procedures are currently more complicated and time-consuming than before to contain the spread of the coronavirus .
in particular , passengers on international flights arriving at noi bai international airport are required to fill in health declaration forms , have their blood samples checked and undergo a 14-day quarantine .
tire explodes as aircraft takes off from hcmc airport .
the tire of a vietnam airlines airbus a321 aircraft exploded wednesday as it took off from hcmc 's tan son nhat international airport .
the accident happened at 4.30 p.m as flight vn-a392 took off to phnom penh , cambodia .
the tire got detached from the aircraft and lit a fire in the nearby grass that lasted for about 10 minutes .
the smoke could be observed from outside of the airport .
no passengers were injured and vietnam airlines sent another aircraft to resume the flight which was rescheduled to 6 p.m .
the state-owned carrier said in a statement that it is cooperating with authorities to investigate the accident .
vietnam airlines flights had encountered tire issues several times last year at the tan son nhat and noi bai airports in hcmc and hanoi .
from january to september last year , there were as many as 54 incidents when aircraft tires were cut by rocks , gravel , nails and other objects on the runway .
officials have said often that runways of the two largest airports in the country have been overused and need repairs .
tan son nhat , the largest airport in vietnam , received over 40 million passengers in 2019 , 1.6 times higher than its intended capacity of 25 million per year , while noi bai airport in hanoi , with a design capacity of 21 million , handled 29 million , according to official data .
saigon mosque closed after followers ' contact with covid-19 patient .
a saigon mosque was shut down tuesday after six people who prayed there came into close contact with a covid-19 positive vietnamese man .
the jamiul islamic mosque in phu nhuan district was closed down per an order from the saigon department of health .
six people in a prayer session were determined to have come into contact with a vietnamese native of ninh thuan province who returned from malaysia and became vietnam 's 61st covid-19 patient .
they are now quarantined at a medical camp in can gio district .
the head priest and his family members who manage the mosque and live on its premises have been quarantined in their home .
authorities have asked the head priest to suspend all services and inform the muslim community in the area to pray in their own homes .
the mosque has been disinfected .
the jamiul islamic mosque has around 170 regular followers and is also the office of the islamic community of ho chi minh city .
patient 61 is a member of the muslim community in ninh thuan 's van lam 3 village , thuan nam district .
the man went from ninh thuan to saigon on february 26 and flew to kuala lumpur on february 27 , where he participated in a religious event with around 16,000 people from february 27 to march 1 .
he returned to saigon 's tan son nhat airport on march 4 and joined a prayer session at the mosque on march 4 and 5 .
he left for ninh thuan on the night of march 5 .
local authorities started monitoring his health on march 12 after discovering that he came back from malaysia , a covid-19 hotspot in southeast asia with 673 infections and two deaths .
on march 15 , he had a sore throat and high fever and was admitted to ninh thuan general hospital .
his samples later tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
vietnam has confirmed 68 covid-19 cases so far .
vietjet air suspends asean flights as covid-19 fears escalate .
vietjet air will temporarily halt all flights from vietnam to major southeast asian countries starting friday as a covid-19 safety measure .
the carrier will suspend all flights to and from thailand , malaysia , cambodia , myanmar , and indonesia .
the covid-19 pandemic has worsened in southeast asia , malaysia being the worst-hit country in the region with 673 infections and two deaths .
national flag carrier vietnam airlines had suspended all flights to and from france and malaysia , starting wednesday .
the carrier is also considering cutting down flights to other southeast asian destinations depending on how the pandemic develops in the region .
vietjet air and vietnam airlines are two carries in the country with many southeast asian connections , with multiple flights to different cities each day .
the government had also said that vietnam will stop issuing new visas to all foreigners starting wednesday .
vietnam has recorded 68 covid-19 infections so far , 52 of them detected since march 6 , prior to which the nation had gone 22 days without a new case .
the previous 16 patients have been discharged from hospitals .
the covid-19 pandemic has spread to 165 countries and territories , claiming nearly 8,000 lives .
american man in da nang infected with covid-19 .
a 41-year-old american tourist who had been to eight countries before arriving to da nang last weekend has been confirmed vietnam 's 68th patient of covid-19 .
since february 11 , he had visited india , spain , morocco , switzerland , germany , hungary and the netherlands , then transited in singapore before landing at da nang international airport at around 11 a.m last saturday on silkair flight mi632 .
after he made health declaration with local health officials , the patient was transferred to a local hospital for quarantine .
da nang center for disease control said on wednesday morning that he tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
tests from the pasteur institute of nha trang on the same day came up with similar result .
apart from patient 68 , da nang had confirmed three cases of covid-19 infection - two british tourists on vietnam airlines flight vn54 from london to hanoi on march 2 , and a vietnamese saleswoman who 'd come into contact with them .
patient 59 tests positive for coronavirus after three negative tests .
a vietnam airlines female flight attendant , confirmed as the country 's coronavirus patient 59 , is a special case as she was found to have the virus in the fourth test , according to the ministry of health .
nguyen manh ha , chairman of hanoi city 's long bien district , told a meeting on march 16 that the 59th confirmed case , who was a flight attendant on flight vn0054 that landed at noi bai international airport on march 2 and lives at a boarding house at 162 nguyen van cu street in long bien district , has been quarantined since patient 17 was detected .
after three negative tests , the patient was moved to gia lam general hospital , but she then showed some symptoms of the covid-19 disease , the local media reported .
the flight attendant was sent back to the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district on march 14 as she had developed symptoms of cough and fever .
on march 15 , eight days after the negative tests , the fourth test result showed that she was infected with the coronavirus .
the district immediately reviewed her case and made a list of those who were in close contact with her to place them in quarantine , ha stated .
addressing the meeting , hanoi city chairman nguyen duc chung noted that the city had witnessed two cases where people tested negative for the coronavirus in the first test , but only seven or eight days later , they developed symptoms of the coronavirus disease called covid-19 .
as such , it is necessary to closely monitor the cases in quarantine , he said .
vietnam 's richest man off top 300 billionaires list .
pham nhat vuong is out of forbes ' list of 300 richest people in the world as share values plummet amidst the coronavirus epidemic .
vuong , chairman of vingroup , was ranked 301st on forbes ' billionaire list sunday , down from 239th place in march last year .
although vuong remains the richest man in vietnam , his net worth has dropped 12 percent in the same period to $ 5.8 billion , forbes estimates .
the 51-year old self-made billionaire directly owns 26 percent of vingroup , according to bloomberg data .
vietnam investment group jsc , in which vuong has about a 92 percent stake , holds 31.6 percent of vingroup .
its vic shares on monday fell to vnd 92,500 ( $ 3.97 ) , lowest since november 16 last year , with major drops recorded since february when vietnam declared the novel coronavirus outbreak an epidemic .
three other vietnamese billionaires have also seen their net worth fall .
nguyen thi phuong thao , ceo of budget carrier vietjet , saw her net worth fall by 9 percent to $ 2.1 billion .
the net worth of tran ba duong , chairman of truong hai auto corporation ( thaco ) , fell 12 percent to $ 1.5 billion , while that of techcombank chairman ho hung anh plunged 41 percent to $ 1 billion .
the man travelled to malaysia on february 27 and returned to vietnam on flight vj826 that landed at hcmc-based tan son nhat airport on march 4 , reported vnexpress .
he developed a fever and a sore throat on march 10 but took no medicine .
five days later , he went to ninh thuan general hospital for health checkup and treatment .
the test result of the patient 's specimen shows he is positive for the coronavirus today , march 16 .
the 61st patient is undergoing medical treatment at the hospital 's department of tropical diseases .
he is also the first case of covid-19 , which is linked to the virus , in ninh thuan .
travel industry top casualty as coronavirus continues to stalk vietnam .
travel companies , hit hard by the fallout of covid-19 , are now facing the threat of closure with the shutting of popular tourist attractions .
if the covid-19 epidemic lasts for a few more months , we will temporarily stop operations because there is not enough money to keep going , said nguyen ba thao , director of bach tung viet travel company .
joining the growing list of tourism hotspots banning visitors as the number of coronavirus cases surge in the country , authorities in the con dao archipelago last tuesday stopped allowing in visitors until further notice .
vietnam airlines normally has 12 flights a week to con dao , once notorious for the incarceration and torture of political prisoners by the french and americans , and there are three high-speed boats with 1,800 seats daily .
but the decision to close the island means all tours have now been canceled .
saigon luxury travel company has suspended all domestic tours .
le nem , its director , said vietnamese are not buying tours , and if a foreigner does the company has to consider if they are coming from an epidemic area .
therefore , we decided to stop .
the staff will be ready to serve tourists when the epidemic is over .
vietnam has more than 2,000 travel companies , most of them small or medium-sized and evidently the most vulnerable to the impacts of the epidemic .
danh viet tourism company is another business struggling to remain open .
nearly 50 percent of its workforce has had to quit , and the remaining people only work 50 percent of the time , mainly dealing with the backlog of work .
hoang bich hang , its director , said .
we mainly serve groups of tourists .
at this time , when tourist destinations are closing and the government is suspending visa waivers for many countries , the company 's situation is much worse than before .
according to tourism companies , between january and march is the peak season for tourism , both domestic and inbound , but due to the covid-19 epidemic and closure of many popular tourist destinations , business has come almost to a standstill .
paris through the eyes of a fashion photographer .
italian fashion photographer paolo roversi knows the city inside and out .
but he does n't consider himself a true parisian .
i 've always been a stranger in paris .
but i love this feeling of being a stranger , you know -- to be here and to walk in this city and to discover all the time , he says .
roversi , who was born in ravenna , a city of 150,000 in central italy , says paris will always be a mythical place for an italian boy from a little town .
and in the 30 years , he 's been there , he 's seen it evolve while maintaining its fundamental qualities .
paris is like the rest of the world , he says .
i think the soul of paris is still there .
but the clothes and the haircut has changed .
and if you want to really see the city 's beauty , roversi has a secret tip .
just cross one of her bridges .
israel bans the entry of people from 5 european countries .
on march 4 , israel decided to ban entry from people from germany , france , spain , austria and switzerland due to concerns about covid-19 .
israeli citizens returning from the 5 countries will have tself-isolate at home for 14 days .
along with expanding the travel restrictions list , the israeli ministry of health has ordered the cancellation of all international conferences in israel and banned crowds of more than 5,000 people .
earlier , israel had imposed a ban on entry to flights from italy , china , and singapore .
stock market volatility expected amid coronavirus next week .
even in a rebounding scenario , the vn-index on the hochiminh stock exchange is expected to experience wild volatility and revisit a support range of 710-740 points next week , according to bao viet securities .
the brokerage said in a daily report that market uncertainties would remain given by the coronavirus pandemic and the net-selling pressure from foreign investors .
as of late saturday , the vietnamese ministry of health reported four more coronavirus infections in hanoi city and the northern province of quang ninh , bringing the country 's total to 53 .
bao viet said the benchmark index successfully retested the support zone of 710-740 points on friday .
stocks have become oversold on a large scale , reinforcing the possibility of a short-term recovery .
the firm added the maturity of march 2020 futures contracts and exchange-traded funds ' portfolio review session will take place during the second half of next week .
therefore , the market may suffer strong volatility in the last sessions of the week .
it also advised that investors with a high cash proportion should refrain from chasing such rallies and only consider buying stocks within the support zone of 700-740 points with low proportions , prioritizing portfolio-existing positions .
gas and oil firms gas and plx lost 4 percent and 5 percent on friday , taking their weekly losses to 26.5 percent and 27.3 percent .
financial service provider tch continued to nosedive .
other notable decliners included insurer bvh ( 4.7 percent ) , mobile phone retailer mwg ( 2.8 percent ) , and dairy producer vnm ( 1.8 percent ) .
on the positive side , vietnam 's largest private firm vic and power firm pow were the top two gainers , up 0.8 percent and 6.1 percent .
investment firm nlg surged 6.8 percent , easing off its five-session losing streak .
on the hanoi stock exchange , the hnx-index lost 0.52 percent from a day earlier to end friday at 101.38 points .
more than 84 million shares worth around vnd 831 billion were transacted on the northern bourse that day .
five powerful countries pledgeto comply with treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons .
on march 10th , top diplomats of the us , china , england , france and russia gave a seal ofstrong approval to non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) on the occasion of 50thanniversary of the entry that first came into effect .
in the joint statement , secretaries of state for foreign affairs of 5 forceful nuclear-weaponed countries re-confirmed that these countries all gave word of honor to adhere to npt with a view to pursuing negotiations about effective ways towards nuclear dissolution .
parties highly assessed significant contributions , which have been brought about by this historictreaty since it entered into force , to the security and the prosperity of citizens all over the world .
the foreign ministers warned that there was no guarantee of the success of the npt in the future , emphasized that this would depend on the collaboration efforts and continuous maintenance of the nuclear powers .
npt was passed by united nations general assembly in 1968 and it has comeinto effort since march 5th , 1970 .
latvian tourist in hcmc vietnam 's covid-19 patient 54 .
a 33-year-old latvian man visiting hcmc and phu quoc island has tested positive for the novel coronavirus , becoming vietnam 's 54th covid-19 patient .
the health ministry confirmed sunday that vladislavs mozgovojs and his wife had arrived in hcmc march 8 from spain on turkish airways flight tk162 .
the couple travelled to phu quoc on flight qh1512 and stayed at the la nube residence hotel until march 13 .
they returned to hcmc on flight qh1524 and stayed at a hotel in district 1 's bui vien street and another in district 4 .
the hotels have not been named .
on the afternoon of march 14 , the husband developed a fever and went to the city 's hospital of tropical diseases , where he was quarantined .
test results released sunday showed that he was covid-19 positive .
mozgovojs is vietnam 's 54th patient and saigon 's 8th .
he is being treated at the hospital of tropical diseases while his wife has been quarantined and awaiting her test results .
medical officers are contacting and checking on people who 'd come into close contact with the patient .
local authorities are asking passengers on the three flights that patient 54 was on to contact the nearest medical facility for a health check .
the hotline for hcmc 's center for disease control is 086957 7133 .
vietnam is treating 38 covid-19 patients , including 14 foreigners .
the country had earlier discharged 16 patients from hospital .
the covid-19 outbreak has so far spread to 156 countries and territories around the world , with the death toll climbing to over 6,000 .
gov't earns more than vnd 3 trillion from latest bond sales .
the state treasury of vietnam has raised vnd 3.12 trillion ( us $ 134 million ) worth of government bonds at a recent auction on the hanoi stock exchange .
the agency offered g-bonds in three tenors .
seven years for vnd 1 trillion and 10 years and 30 years for vnd 2 trillion each , reported the vietnam news agency .
as a result , the proceeds of the auction totaled vnd 3.12 trillion ( us $ 134 million ) , with interest rates on all tenors dropping 0.11 percent to 0.37 percent per year compared to previous sales .
in particular , vnd 370 billion worth of seven-year bonds was mobilized with an annual interest rate of 1.9 percent , down a mere 0.1 percent compared with the auction on march 4 .
as much as vnd 2 trillion was raised from 10-year bonds with an annual interest rate of 2.18 percent , down 0.61 percent from the february 26 auction .
meanwhile , an additional vnd 750 billion was collected through 30-year bonds , with a yield rate of 3 percent , 0.25 percent lower than that in the march 4 session .
so far this year , the state treasury has collected vnd 31.38 trillion ( us $ 1.34 billion ) worth of government bonds on the northern bourse .
many supermarket chains have increased their supplies to serve local customers .
big c has tripled its stockpiles of products , while saigon co.op has increased its inventory of items by 50 percent -100 percent , and the total number of goods at vinmart has been adjusted up by 50 percent -200 percent .
lotte mart and mm megamarket have also prepared ample supplies of goods to meet the demand of consumers , apart from keeping prices stable , as these retailers are actively cooperating with farmers and sources of goods from various provinces and cities , the local media reported .
there are plentiful supplies of various products for customers at many traditional markets .
however , the consumption of goods at wet markets has dipped by 20 percent -30 percent , as customers prefer buying products at supermarkets due to the growing fear of the coronavirus .
statistics from the ministry indicate that the output of rice could reach an estimated 26 million tons this year .
domestic customers will consume some 19-20 million tons , allowing the country to export six million tons of rice .
the total volume of meat of all types for supply is estimated at 5.5-5.8 million tons this year , up 10 percent against 2019 .
of the total , an estimated 3.5 million tons of pork will be supplied to the local market , while the supply of poultry will amount to an estimated 1.36 million tons .
besides this , seafood supplies have reached some 8.2 million tons each year , while 40-50 million tons of vegetables and fruits are provided for customers annually .
such sufficient supplies of goods can meet the demand of some 100 million people in vietnam , noted the ministry .
visitors from covid-19 hotspots to be tested on arrival in vietnam .
vietnam has made it mandatory for passengers arriving in vietnam from or through coronavirus hit areas to be quarantined and tested for covid-19 .
the national steering committee for the prevention and control of covid-19 has decided all visitors coming from or through the schengen area , the u.k. , china , south korea , and iran will be compulsorily tested for novel coronavirus infection from saturday .
those testing positive will get immediate treatment while the rest will be quarantined for 14 days .
the ministry of transport will check the number of flights , passengers and their information and estimated landing times and locations before informing other ministries and local authorities to prepare and manage quarantine zones .
airlines have been instructed to let their customers know about vietnam 's preventive measures and regulations .
the ministry of national defence will arrange quarantine zones and transportation for people coming from or through these countries .
the ministry of public security will speed up immigration procedures to prevent large numbers of people from congregating at airports .
the schengen area includes austria , belgium , czech republic , denmark , estonia , finland , france , germany , greece , hungary , iceland , italy , latvia , liechtenstein , lithuania , luxembourg , malta , netherlands , norway , poland , portugal , slovakia , slovenia , spain , sweden , and switzerland .
usd 30,2 million to fund vietnam 's climate-resilient project .
the green climate fund , under the united nations development program ( undp ) , has approved nonrefundable aid worth us $ 30.2 million for a project that will support climate-resilient agriculture amid climate change in the central highlands and south-central coast regions of vietnam .
at a recent meeting in switzerland , officials from the fund made the decision , the local media reported .
according to the ministry of agriculture and rural development , the project will be executed in six years , directly benefiting more than 222,400 people in the provinces of daklak , dak , nong , binh thuan , ninh thuan , and khanh hoa .
the project will help modernize irrigation systems , improve water security and livelihood options , increase knowledge about climate risks and resilient agricultural techniques , and access climate advisories and market information .
more than 335,000 people are expected to indirectly benefit from improved institutional capacities through training and technical assistance , enhanced access to climate risk information and widespread dissemination of best practices in climate-resilient agriculture .
the project is part of an innovative and integrated approach to building resilience , envisioned by the vietnamese government and developed with the undp and the asian development bank .
the aid complements and leverages the asian development bank 's investment in modernized irrigation systems in drought-affected provinces , ensuring that the benefits extend to the poorest and most vulnerable populations , especially ethnic minority people and women , said caitlin wiesen , undp resident representative in vietnam .
vietnam reports four more covid-19 infections .
four more persons have tested covid-19 positive , raising the country 's total to 53 , the health ministry confirmed saturday afternoon .
a 50-year-old man living in hanoi 's ba dinh district had traveled to paris for a business trip and returned to vietnam on march 9 .
two days later , he showed symptoms of fever and cough .
on friday , he was taken to the national hospital for tropical diseases in dong anh district and a test result showed he was infected with the novel coronavirus .
he became the country 's 50th covid-19 patient .
doctors said , his condition is stable .
the 51st patient is a 22-year-old woman residing in hanoi 's bac tu liem district .
she was an overseas student in europe and had traveled to some countries in the region between february 23 and march 12 .
on thursday she developed symptoms of high fever and cough but had no chest pain .
she landed at the noi bai international airport on flight qr968 friday and was directly taken to the national hospital for tropical diseases .
tests done showed she is infected with the virus .
a 24-year-old woman in ha long town in the northern province of quang ninh is the country 's 52nd covid-19 patient .
she had boarded a flight from london to hanoi on march 9 , and taken a taxi to her house in ha long town .
she isolated herself at home before being taken to the local quarantine area .
tests done friday and saturday in quang ninh and the national institute of hygiene and epidemiology in hanoi confirmed she was infected with the virus .
the 53rd covid-19 patient in vietnam is a 53-year-old czech citizen who had come into contact some italian nationals in his home country .
on march 10 , he landed at saigon 's tan son nhat international airport on a qr970 flight that transited at doha airport in qatar .
he stayed at a local hotel in saigon 's district 1 .
on friday , he developed symptoms of cough and fatigue .
he went to ho chi minh city 's traditional medicine hospital for a health check and results showed signs of lung inflammation .
he tested covid-19 positive after being quarantined at the city 's hospital for tropical diseases .
saturday , a 31-year-old man saigon resident who 'd shared a car with an infected person and met with another infected person , and a 71-year-old british man on the vn54 flight that landed in hanoi on march 2 had been confirmed as the nation 's 48th and 49th covid-19 patients .
vietnam confirms 49th covid-19 case .
a 71-year-old british man on the vn54 flight that landed in hanoi on march 2 has been found covid-19 positive , the health ministry announced saturday .
the septuagenarian is the husband of another infected british passenger who 'd come in on the same flight .
the man has been quarantined and is being treated at the hue central hospital in central hue town since march 8 .
so far , 15 passengers on board vietnam airlines flight vn54 from london to hanoi have tested positive for covid-19 .
the flight had carried 217 passengers and crew members .
vietnam has confirmed 49 covid-19 infections so far .
the covid-19 outbreak has far spread to 145 countries and territories around the world , with the death toll climbing to over 5,400 .
domestic coffee prices edge down in vietnam on coronavirus fears .
vietnam 's domestic coffee prices slipped this week due to growing concern over the coronavirus , while trading activity in indonesia remained slow as traders await new supplies .
farmers in the central highlands , vietnam 's largest coffee-growing area , sold coffee at vnd 31,100 ( $ 1.34 ) per kg versus vnd 31,500 last week .
although demand since the outbreak is not as high as it was , traders , exporters and roasters are still keen on vietnamese robusta , traders said .
vietnam exported 173,789 tonnes , or 2,896 60-kg bags , of coffee in february , up 19.8 percent from january , customs data showed on wednesday .
may robusta coffee settled down $ 8 or 0.63 percent , at $ 1,271 per tonne on wednesday .
traders in vietnam offered 5 percent black and broken grade 2 robusta at a premium of $ 160 per tonne to the january contract on thursday .
meanwhile , traders in indonesia 's lampung province said sumatran robusta beans were offered with a $ 300- $ 350 premium to the may contract while markets await for harvest .
saigon officials want bars , clubs closed down to contain covid-19 .
tran kim yen , party secretary of district 1 , said at a meeting on thursday that the 180 discos and bars and 500 karaoke places in the city should be closed since a large number of people here increase the chances of infection .
the district 's large population and numerous tourism sites are a recipe for spreading the infection and the places should only be opened again once the epidemic dies down , she said .
nguyen huu hung , deputy director of the municipal department of health , agreed with her saying that entertainment activities in saigon should be suspended to prevent the potential spread of infection .
the outbreak has spread to 127 countries and territories around the world , killing close to 5,000 people .
miss vietnam 2020 put off as coronavirus steals limelight .
the country is committing a lot of effort to fighting the epidemic .
though we are prepared , delaying the contest is for the best , said le xuan son , head of the organizing board , adding it is still receiving applications .
miss vietnam 2020 was to commence from may to august with a press conference in late march .
the 16th contest welcomes vietnamese aged 18 to 27 from which one winner would be chosen , alongside miss fashion , miss sports , miss talent , miss beach .
in 2018 , tran tieu vy , an 18-year-old from central quang nam province , beat 42 other finalists for the crown .
bui phuong nga , born in central ha tinh province , and nguyen thi thuy an from southern kien giang province , were the first and second runners-up .
since its inception in 1988 , miss vietnam , organized every two years , has been one of the most popular beauty contests in the country .
the vietnamese entertainment industry has been hit hard by the novel coronavirus , with movie releases and music shows put off to avoid large crowds from gathering .
american rapper hits glamour cover in cong tri creation .
the american artist chose the dress with long sleeves and a sky-high slit to highlight her dark complexion for glamour 's march issue .
using high-quality silk , the designer custom-made the outfit for the hip hop queen .
lizzo , 32 , is an american singer-songwriter , rapper , and flutist , known best for songs like juice , boys , and good as hell .
she gained eight nominations at the grammy awards 2020 and won three .
best urban contemporary album , best pop solo performance , and best traditional r & b performance .
last month , american actress sandra oh also chose a cong tri dress at an oscar party when australian star margot robbie wore an asymmetrical design from the vietnamese designer to attend british comedy chat show graham norton show .
other american actresses , sienna miller , julia garner and singer camila cabello , have also donned the cong tri 's outfits .
in january , fashion website fashionista said tri is part of a new generation of designers poised to shake up the red carpet .
five more coronavirus infections confirmed in central vietnam .
five people who 'd had direct contact with an infected woman in binh thuan were confirmed covid-19 positive thursday , making it nine infected in the province and 44 in the country .
four new cases are the 59-year-old husband , 28-year-old son , two-year-old granddaughter and an in-law of the businesswoman who tested positive after a trip back from washington d.c .
the fifth is a 12-year-old boy , her neighbor .
on wednesday , her house-help , an employee and daughter-in-law were confirmed infected .
all nine patients are being treated in quarantine at the binh thuan general hospital .
covid-19 , which who has declared a pandemic , has spread to 125 countries and territories , killing more than 4,700 people .
market crashes over pandemic fears .
the local stock market continued crashing on march 12 , as investors were alarmed with the widespread of the covid-19 disease around the world , pushing the benchmark vn-index to the record low since august 2017 .
the hochiminh stock exchange saw only 53 stocks rising and up to 344 others declining , with 117 of them tumbling to their floor prices .
at the close , the main index fell 42.10 points , or 5.19 percent , compared with the previous session to stand at 769.25 .
since early this week , the vn-index has lost over 122 points , wiping off vnd 552 trillion ( nearly us $ 24 billion ) in market cap .
monday saw the index 's worst single-day loss in 19 years , at more than 6 percent , according to statistics by dau tu chung khoan website .
the vn30 basket saw up to 29 stocks falling , including key stocks such as property conglomerate vic , beverage firm sab and steelmaker hpg .
msn , a consumer goods producer , was the only stock closing at the reference price of vnd 49,950 .
lender stb led the hcmc market by liquidity with 21.3 million shares changing hands , but it slid 6.6 percent at vnd 9,950 .
mbb , another bank , ranked second with 15.4 million shares , followed by steel firm hpg with 13 million shares .
among small stocks , mining firm amd and property group qcg again bucked the trend , going up to the ceiling prices for the ninth and 10th consecutive session .
the two firms reported a matching volume of 9.1 million shares and 1.2 million shares , respectively .
besides this , media group yeg also closed at the upper limit of vnd 71,400 with matching volume of 200,000 shares , after announcing a partnership with local soft drink producer tan hiep phat today .
the hanoi stock exchange saw most heavyweights dipping , in which lender acb fell 5.6 percent at vnd 22,100 and petroleum technical service firm pvs plunged to the floor price .
the two firms reported matching volume of 11 million shares and 7.3 million shares , respectively .
shb , another bank , turned the most actively traded stock with 17 million shares traded , adding 0.9 percent from the session earlier at vnd 11,200 .
the hnx-index shed a hefty 3.61 points , or 3.42 percent , to close at 101.92 .
the northern index has lost more than 12 points since early this week .
fun facts you might not know about taylor swift .
over the years the pop music industry has gifted us with some of its best singers we have ever known .
these stars are loved not only due to their amazing voices but also other factors in their lives .
one such star we all know and love is taylor swift .
the star is loved for her great voice and amazing personality .
she has given us some of the best hits like i knew you were trouble , shake it off and look what you made me do .
here are seven things you probably did n't know about her .
saigon authorities refuse permission for cruise ship to dock on coronavirus fears .
a cruise ship has been denied permission to dock in saigon over fears some of its 423 passengers could be carrying the new coronavirus .
bahamian-flagged silver spirit , owned by silversea cruises , carrying many italian passengers and crew members , was scheduled to visit ho chi minh city and other popular tourist destinations on friday .
but city authorities and the maritime administration decided against allowing it to berth amid the worsening of the covid-19 situation in europe and vietnam diagnosing 28 new cases in the past week , many of them foreigners .
italy is one of the worst-hit countries with more than 12,400 infection cases and 827 deaths .
the silver spirit changed its itinerary and went to another country .
earlier 24 international cruise ships canceled plans to dock at chan may port in thua thien-hue province over covid-19 concerns .
aida vita , operated by german company aida cruises , was denied permission to dock in quang ninh province on february 13 , the day vietnam confirmed its 16th patient , over fears passengers could be infected .
this earned quang ninh authorities a reprimand from deputy prime minister vu duc dam .
warning other localities not to repeat the act , dam said while they need to strictly implement immigration and quarantine procedures with respect to foreign visitors and vehicles coming from epidemic-affected areas , they must ensure these do not affect tourism and business activities .
but developments related to the epidemic since march 6 have forced the vietnamese government to take tougher measures to contain it , including suspending visa waivers for citizens of eight european countries and reducing the frequency of flights to europe .
it has issued several travel bans , canceled flights to epidemic-hit areas and imposed strict quarantine requirements for people coming from affected countries and territories .
techcombank chairman withdraws from forbes billionaire list .
ho hung anh , chairman of techcombank , is no longer on forbes ' billionaire list after his assets fell under the $ 1-billion mark .
anh 's total assets were estimated at $ 967.2 million as of thursday , down more than $ 700 million against last year 's ranking , according to forbes .
tcb shares of techcombank had hit floor price for three out of its four sessions this week , taking its share price down from vnd 22,050 ( $ 0.94 ) on monday morning to vnd 17,950 ( $ 0.77 ) by the end of thursday 's session .
anh first made the forbes billionaire list in march last year to become the 1,349 richest person in the world with a net worth of $ 1.7 billion .
anh started out by trading goods between eastern europe and vietnam in the 1990s and invested in techcombank in 1995 .
he became a shareholder of techcombank in 1995 , its deputy ceo in 2006 and chairman in 2008 .
techcombank recorded the second-highest profit in vietnam 's banking system last year with a gross profit of over vnd 12.8 trillion ( $ 553 million ) , a 20 percent-plus increase over the previous year .
its profit structure , however , encountered significant changes compared to the earlier period .
vietnam had five billionaires by the end of 2019 , with the figure expected to rise to six in 2024 , according to global property consultant knight frank 's wealth report 2020 .
vinmart to close some stores on growing coronavirus concerns .
vinmart is set to close some of its stores temporarily until the new coronavirus epidemic situation improves .
a spokesperson for vincommerce , a subsidiary of giant group masan , said on wednesday that vinmart supermarkets and vinmart+ convenience stores in neighborhoods that are at high risks of infection or have been locked would close until the situation comes under control .
the announcement by the operator of vietnam 's largest retail chain -- with 3,200 outlets -- came after an employee of electronics retail chain dien may xanh in da nang was found infected with the novel coronavirus .
other retail chains like big c and lotte have said they will provide masks , gloves and hand sanitizers to employees and customers .
vietnam confirms 39th coronavirus patient .
a male tour guide in hanoi has become the capital city 's fifth and nation 's 39th covid-19 patient , vietnam 's health ministry said thursday .
the ministry said that the 25-year-old man , who lives in dich vong ward , cau giay district , was serving a tour to the nearby ninh binh province on march 4 when he had direct contact with a british tourist who 'd come to hanoi on the vn54 flight from london on march 2 and later tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
after learning that the british was infected he went to the saint paul hospital in the city to be examined and was transferred on march 8 to the national hospital of tropical diseases in dong anh district .
his samples tested positive for the novel coronavirus on wednesday .
vietnam prepares large-scale quarantine in covid-19 fight .
the prime minister has instructed ministries and localities to speed up preparations to set up large-scale quarantine facilities and ready all resources thereof .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc 's directive , issued wednesday , requires everyone traveling from or transiting through areas with the novel coronavirus to be under strict quarantine upon entering vietnam .
they will subsequently be screened and appropriate anti-epidemic measures taken to avoid cross-infection .
the pm has also directed that the staff and members of the armed forces working in such concentrated quarantine areas to be protected and looked after well to avoid getting infected .
the ministries of health and foreign affairs have been assigned the task of announcing the list of countries and territories experiencing the covid-19 outbreak so people traveling from or transiting through them are quarantined .
the pm has tasked localities with zoning , quarantining and immediately disinfecting all areas with novel coronavirus infections .
they have to strictly control people going in and out of quarantine areas .
review and follow up on every person who has entered the country in the past 14 days , but is not under concentrated quarantine .
promptly detect infection sources .
and quarantine or monitor those who 've come into contact with covid-19 patients in accordance with the health ministry 's guidelines .
localities and functional forces must also strengthen control over people entering the country by air , land or sea routes .
and strictly control entry along the southwestern border .
flights between vietnam and areas with the outbreak , including those operated by foreign airlines , should be minimized .
starting thursday , vietnam will suspend visa waiver for eight european countries .
denmark , norway , finland , sweden , the u.k , france , germany , and spain .
the pm also decided last friday that ethnic vietnamese from south korea and italy and their family members will no longer be granted visa-free entry .
the pm has also tasked the ministries health and science , technology and environment with studying measures to prevent , control , treat and develop a vaccine for covid-19 , as also put a novel coronavirus test kit to use .
in addition to restricting meetings and crowded events , the pm has also requested that government agencies enhance the application of information technology in their works , and encourage people to use online public services .
hcmc hunts british man playing hooky from being quarantined .
a passport picture of british citizen grogan matthew james knight who 's been evading hcmc officials ' efforts to quarantine him .
photo courtesy of the ho chi minh city health department .
hcmc authorities are searching for a british man who arrived in vietnam on a flight that carried at least 11 covid-19 infected passengers .
the hcmc health department wednesday issued an urgent search warrant for grogan matthew james knight , 32 , to quarantine him .
he arrived in hanoi on the vn54 flight from london on march 2 and went to hoi an town in the central quang nam province on march 5 , on march 7 , he came to ho chi minh city .
officials contacted the man , but he refused to provide his exact location in the city .
the vn54 flight carried 217 passengers and crew members .
so far , 13 passengers , two vietnamese and 11 foreigners , have tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
another 23 people on the flight contacted by hcmc have tested negative .
vietnam has recorded 22 new novel coronavirus patients in the last five days , bringing the total to 38 , 16 of whom were discharged weeks ago .
health declaration apps to aid vietnam 's coronavirus campaign .
two mobile apps will assist vietnamese and foreigners complete health declarations to help contain the covid-19 spread in the country .
developed by the ministry of information and communications along with the ministry of health in collaboration with domestic tech firms , ncovi was designed for vietnamese and vietnam health declaration for foreigners entering vietnam .
the two free apps are available on both the google play and apple stores .
authorities have suggested all vietnamese download ncovi , register their mobile numbers and id information and confirm their state of health .
app users can update their health status on a daily basis .
they can also report suspected cases of infection in their neighborhood .
health authorities will collect such information to track down those to be monitored or quarantined to limit the spread of covid-19 .
for foreigners entering vietnam , the vietnam health declaration is recommended .
it operates the same as ncovi .
via the two apps , authorities will provide updates on the situation in vietnam alongside guidance on prevention .
commenting on the launch of both apps , deputy prime minister vu duc dam , head of the national steering committee on covid-19 prevention and control , said he hopes they would allow timely interaction with medical authorities .
he insisted all personal information provided would be used only for purposes of protecting public health .
vietnam last friday demanded everyone arriving in vietnam fill out health declaration forms .
arrivals can choose to file the declaration in paper or electronic form , available in english , chinese , korean , italian , cambodia , russian , spanish , french and thai .
those with symptoms like coughing , fever , shortness of breath , and fatigue are required to be examined and quarantined .
vietnam already required those arriving from mainland china , south korea , iran , and italy , the worst-hit countries , to be quarantined for at least 14 days .
da nang saleswoman is vietnam 's 35th novel coronavirus patient .
a 29-year-old da nang saleswoman who 'd come into contact with two infected british tourists was confirmed as vietnam 's latest covid-19 patient wednesday .
the patient works at an outlet in the dien may xanh electronics supermarket in hai chau district , da nang .
she received the british tourists at around 6-7 p.m on march 4 .
the tourists were confirmed sunday as vietnam 's 22nd and 23rd covid-19 infections .
she was placed in quarantine at the da nang general hospital wednesday after her samples sent to the pasteur institute in nha trang tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
vietnam confirm 32nd coronavirus patient .
a 24-year-old woman who contacted with a hanoi 's covid-19 patient in london is vietnam 's 32nd patient of the novel coronavirus , the health ministry stated tuesday .
the woman , who lives in london and flew to saigon in a private jet on monday , is under quarantine at the city 's field hospital in cu chi district .
she met and joined a party with nguyen hong nhung , a hanoian who was confirmed positive for covid-19 last friday , in london on february 27 .
on march 2 , she developed symptoms of cough but did n't have a fever and was admitted to a hospital in london for treatment .
on march 7 , she started coughing a lot and had no fever .
after hearing information about nhung infected with the virus , she came back to the hospital and told doctors about her contact history .
the hospital in london required her to be isolated at home but no covid-19 test was taken .
the patient was rented a private plane by her family to fly from london to vietnam .
the plane landed at tan son nhat airport at 8.15 a.m on monday .
health authorities in ho chi minh city sent her to the cu chi field hospital for isolation and took her samples for testing , which came back positive the same day .
she still has high fever and coughing , but no breathing difficulty .
the covid-19 outbreak has thus far spread to 113 countries and territories around the world , killing over 4,000 .
coach park hang-seo back on the job after coronavirus isolation .
after two weeks of quarantine at home , vietnam national men 's team football coach park hang-seo watched a v.league game sunday .
his health was checked and declared normal by the medical center of phu do ward , nam tu liem district , hanoi , where he currently resides .
park and his wife choi sang-a had returned from south korea on february 23 , showing no symptom associated with the novel coronavirus that causes the covid-19 disease .
the couple had not traveled to south korea 's covid-19 hotspots , deagu city and north gyeongnam province .
they had remained in seoul during their stay .
park went to the thong nhat stadium in ho chi minh city sunday to watch the game between saigon fc and song lam nghe an ( slna ) .
he reportedly wants to check out some players like phan van duc , pham xuan manh , and ho tuan tai before listing the official squad for the march 31 world cup 2022 qualifier clash against malaysia .
park 's assistants , lee young-jin and park sung-guyn , have also completed their 14-day-quarantine .
they went to the tam ky stadium in the central province of quang nam and pleiku stadium in the central highlands province of gia lai to watch other v .
leagues games and scout for talent .
during their quarantine time at home , park , his wife , and assistants were closely monitored by the phu do ward medical center .
they had received frequent medical checks and followed the quarantine procedures strictly , the center said .
earlier , on february 1 , park renewed his contract with the vietnam football federation , the terms of which have not been disclosed .
his stated mission in 2020 is to get vietnam through the third round of world cup 2022 qualifiers and to successfully defend the aff cup title , which vietnam won in 2018 .
british tourist in hoi an is vietnam 's 33rd covid-19 patient .
a 58-year-old british man , who has been touring hoi an after sharing a hanoi flight with many covid-19 patients , has tested positive for novel coronavirus .
the unnamed man is staying in the ancient town hoi an in the central province of quang nam , the ministry of health said tuesday .
the patient was the latest to be recorded among those who traveled in the same flight as hanoian nguyen hong nhung , who became vietnam 's 17th covid-19 patient and its first after 22 clean days last friday .
after nhung , 12 people on the same flight , 11 foreigners and one hanoi man , have tested covid-19 positive .
the foreign tourists , nine brits , one mexican and one irish , have traveled to many destinations in the country such as lao cai and quang ninh in northern vietnam , hue , da nang and hoi an in central vietnam .
the hoi an tourist is the second case confirmed on tuesday in vietnam .
the other is a 24-year-old vietnamese woman who 'd met nhung at a party in london last month , before falling sick and being put on a private plane to saigon on monday .
the covid-19 outbreak has thus far spread to 115 countries and territories around the world , killing over 4,000 .
vietnam confirms third covid-19 infection in a day .
a vietnamese businesswoman flying in from the us has tested covid-19 positive , becoming the country 's 34th infection .
the 51-year-old patient , a resident of the south-central binh thuan province , had flown to new york on february 22 , transiting at incheon international airport in south korea for three hours .
on february 29 , she flew back to vietnam , transiting at the doha international airport in qatar .
she landed at tan son nhat airport in ho chi minh city on march 2 and took a car home to phan thiet resort town in binh thuan .
on march 5 , she developed high fever and cough .
four days later , she was admitted to the binh thuan general hospital and placed under quarantine pending covid-19 tests , and the results came back positive .
traders rush to buy rice due to high demand amid covid-19 outbreak .
as local consumers ' demand for rice has surged amid the covid-19 outbreak , rice traders have rushed to the ba dac rice market , the largest of its kind in the mekong delta , to stock up on the product .
nguyen thi ly , a rice trader at ba dac rice market in cai be district , tien giang province , today , march 10 , told the saigon times that rice sales there have surged by seven to 10 times to 70-100 tons per day .
in addition , rice prices at the market have increased by vnd 1,000 per kilogram on average over the last three days .
nguyen thi loan , another trader , stated that the high demand has made it difficult to find vehicles to transport the product .
according to ngo ngoc yen , director of yen ngoc company in hcmc , local consumers have rushed to purchase rice due to growing concerns over the spread of covid-19 .
therefore , orders from traders from the northern and central regions have surged .
second patient cured of hiv , say doctors .
a man from london has become the second person in the world to be cured of hiv , doctors say .
adam castillejo is still free of the virus more than 30 months after stopping anti-retroviral therapy .
he was not cured by the hiv drugs , however , but by a stem-cell treatment he received for cancer he also had , the lancet hiv journal reports .
the donors of those stem cells have an uncommon gene that gives them , and now mr castillejo , protection against hiv .
in 2011 , timothy brown , the berlin patient became the first person reported as cured of hiv , three and half years after having similar treatment .
stem-cell transplants appear to stop the virus being able to replicate inside the body by replacing the patient 's own immune cells with donor ones that resist hiv infection .
celebrities asked to undergo health checks following europe fashion weeks .
nguyen tan binh , director of ho chi minh city 's department of health , on monday , called on local authorities to tighten supervision on those having had contact with covid-19 patients .
the health department emphasized the sister of the 17th covid-19 patient in vietnam , living in europe and attending several fashion shows in paris and milan , had been thus infected by the novel coronavirus .
besides , as some saigon celebs had been to both events , hcmc 's department of culture and sports alongside its department of information and communications asked those who had contact with the duo to immediately visit local clinics or hospitals and undergo health examinations .
people 's committees across saigon would coordinate with local police to track citizens returning from paris and milan or those who have had contact with the 17th patient and her sister .
the fashion weeks attracted thousands of visitors from all over the world in french capital paris and milan , situated in the lombardy region of italy , and experiencing the largest number of covid-19 infections outside asia .
in the last few days , several vietnamese celebrities returning from the fashion weeks have been quarantined at home .
a female scientist of nasa passed away at the age of 101 .
kinda johnson , a mathematician working for nasa , who is well-known for her exceedingly quick brain as a human computer , departed her life on february 24 at the age of 101 .
by the time the us national aeronautics and space administration was just founded , all means of the machine was rudimentary , mrs. kinda , as well as her colleagues , had to calculate the space shuttle 's flight trajectories with bare hands .
it was the contributions she made that gave the us a hand to become the first country to send a man to the moon .
the silent life of this coloured woman was also reappeared in a book and a film of the same name .
at a white house ceremony in 2015 , president barack obama awarded her the presidential medal of freedom .
this is the highest civilian honor that a us citizen can receive .
during 33 years of working at nasa , ms. kinda broke racial and gender barriers .
she showed the next generation that anyone can be great in their own field , president obama said .
vietnamese man from daegu is country 's 18th covid-19 patient .
a 27-year-old man who has been quarantined upon returning to vietnam from daegu since wednesday has tested positive for the novel coronavirus , the health ministry stated saturday .
the man hails from the northern province of thai binh , around 100 kilometers from hanoi .
on february 17 , he flew to gimhae international airport in busan and traveled to daegu , south korea 's covid-19 epicenter .
accompanying him was his 24-year-old sister .
the duo and their two vietnamese friends went to a supermarket in daegu two times on february 18-19 .
their friends returned to vietnam on february 26 and were quarantined at son tay military school in hanoi .
the latest patient landed at van don airport in the northern province of quang ninh on march 4 on a flight from busan .
currently , all flights from south korea have been diverted away from hanoi , saigon and da nang airports .
after entering vietnam , he was quarantined and had his blood samples tested .
the results showed him positive for covid-19 .
south korea has so far reported over 7,000 covid-19 infections , second only to mainland china , where the disease was first detected last december .
vietnam confirmed its 17th infection case on friday , after spending 22 straight days without any new infection .
the patient was a 26 year old woman in hanoi returning from europe .
she has been quarantined and is undergoing treatment at campus no.2 of the hanoi central hospital for tropical diseases .
all 16 persons confirmed with covid-19 infections in vietnam earlier have been discharged from the hospital .
the covid-19 epidemic has spread to 100 countries and territories around the world with global death toll climbing to 3,500 .
starting saturday , everyone coming to vietnam have to fill health declarations .
vietnam mulls health declaration for all vietnamese citizens .
all vietnamese citizens should be required to fill out health declaration forms starting tuesday as the covid-19 crisis deepens , officials have proposed .
the national steering committee for the prevention and control of covid-19 made this proposal in the context of vietnam recording 14 infections in just three days , raising the national total to 30 .
the committee said sunday that vietnam asking health declarations from everyone arriving in the country from overseas is not enough .
the declaration needs to apply for vietnamese residents as well , it said .
this is not only a responsibility but also a specific action for all vietnamese people to join hands and unite to fight the epidemic , the proposal said .
the declared information will be strictly managed , exclusively serving the anti-epidemic agenda and will not be used for any other purpose , the committee added .
the ministry of information and communications , the ministry of health , the vietnam social insurance and other relevant agencies have been asked to complete the proposal that could take effect on tuesday .
visa suspension .
the committee also proposed that vietnam suspends visa-free entry for european union ( eu ) members and the u.k .
countries outside the eu with more than 500 infection cases or more than 50 cases each day should also have their visa exemptions suspended , the committee suggested .
if a foreigner shows symptoms of covid-19 infection , he or she should be denied a visa to enter vietnam , it said .
the latest proposals and moves came after nine foreigners , including seven british , one irish and one mexican aged between 58 and 74 , tested positive for the novel coronavirus in vietnam after boarding the same vietnam airlines flight vn0054 as hanoi 's first covid-19 patient , nguyen hong nhung .
earlier , vietnam already required those arriving from mainland china , south korea , iran , and italy , the worst-hit countries , to be quarantined for at least 14 days on arrival , apart from suspending visa-free entry for south koreans and italians .
deputy prime minister vu duc dam , head of the covid-19 prevention committee , said that after the 17th case , vietnam had officially entered the second phase of the war against covid-19 .
this stage is more difficult than the first because the epidemic has spread to more than 100 countries and territories around the world , he said .
we have to prevent the disease from hundreds of sides instead of a few sides like before .
in fact , the covid-19 epidemic has invaded our country and is becoming more serious , dam said .
however , he expressed his confidence that vietnam would win the battle .
we have won the first round and will absolutely win the whole battle , he said .
dam said vietnam has foreseen all situations , having sketched out scenarios for coping with thousands of infections .
the most important thing is that we must continue to persistently implement the principle of preventing the virus from spreading , localize it and stamp out the epidemic .
early detection is a very important task , dam said .
he also suggested relevant agencies recommend that vietnamese citizens limit overseas travel and avoid countries with the high number of covid-19 infections at the moment , only go when absolutely necessary and fully equipped with the knowledge to protect themselves from the epidemic .
the covid-19 outbreak has thus far spread to 104 countries and territories around the world , with the death toll climbing to 3,806 .
saigon senior students get another week off as covid-19 cases surge .
73,000 twelfth grade students in saigon are allowed to stay away from classes until march 15 instead of returning to school monday amid rising coronavirus fears .
the latest announcement was made on sunday night by hcmc authorities in the context that the country has recorded 14 new infection cases over the past three days , raising the country 's total to 30 .
on friday , city authorities have approved the decision to allow all 12th graders to return to school on monday while kindergarteners , students from first to eleventh grade and students at language , it , tutoring and soft skill centers would continue to have their break extended until the end of next week .
hcmc , the biggest city in vietnam , has nearly two million students from kindergarten to continuing education and vocational training colleges .
high school students , especially 12th graders , have greater pressure to keep up with their study plans as they will have a high school graduation exam this summer .
the exam was held in june in previous years but has been rescheduled for july this year .
national high school exams are seen as a seminal event in the country , with success or failure having far-reaching impacts .
the exams not only award a high-school certificate , but also decide admissions to universities and colleges .
deputy prime minister vu duc dam said at a recent government meeting that students should return to school only when safety is ensured .
earlier , vietnamese cities and provinces had allowed their students to stay away from classes until the end of february , instead of going back to school on february 3 after the lunar new year break .
high school seniors in 59 provinces and cities across the country have officially resumed classes on march 2 after a prolonged break of more than a month , owing to fears over the spread of the coronavirus .
the country 's two largest metropolises hanoi and hcmc , tien giang province in the south and thai binh province in the north are the only four localities in the country to have students at all levels stay away from classes until march 8 or 15 .
as of sunday , 40 provinces and cities around the country , including hanoi have kept their students away from classes until the end of next week as the number of coronavirus cases in vietnam has risen quickly .
on friday , nguyen hong nhung who returned from europe was confirmed positive for covid-19 , becoming hanoi 's first infection case and vietnam 's 17th after the country going 22 days with no new infection .
a day later , a 27-year-old man returning to vietnam from south korea 's daegu city became the 18th while nhung 's personal chauffeur and her aunt were the 19th and 20th cases .
on sunday morning , a 61-year-old hanoian on the same flight as nhung was confirmed to have contracted the novel coronavirus .
the man , the nation 's 21st covid-19 infection , lives in the same neighborhood as her in ba dinh district .
the 18th patient hails from thai binh province and is under treatment in ninh binh province , northern vietnam , while all the remaining four new vietnamese patients reside in hanoi .
the same day , nine foreigners who 'd flown in from london on the same flight as nhung were confirmed positive for coronavirus .
ho chi minh city has recorded three coronavirus infections so far , two chinese and one vietnamese american .
all of them have recovered and been discharged .
the covid-19 outbreak has thus far spread to 103 countries and territories around the world , with the death toll climbing to 3,649 .
british visitor is vietnam 's 31st covid-19 infection .
the latest confirmed covid-19 case takes the national total to 31 , of this 16 have recovered and been discharged from hospitals .
a british man who 'd flown in from london on the same flight as hanoi 's first covid-19 patient has tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
vietnam 's health ministry confirmed monday that the 49-year-old british man is being treated at bac quang nam hospital in the central province of quang nam .
he is in stable condition .
the unnamed man is the latest covid-19 confirmation among those who traveled in the same plane as nguyen hong nhung , who tested covid-19 positive friday .
nhung is hanoi 's first coronavirus patient and vietnam 's 17th case after the country going 22 days with no new infection .
nine other foreigners – seven brits , one irish and a mexican aged 58-74 – who were nhung 's co-passengers had tested positive for the novel coronavirus sunday .
they have been quarantined .
nhung , 26 , had flown to hanoi from london on vietnam airlines flight vn0054 , in the business class .
there were 201 passengers on the flight , including 21 in the business class , vietnam airlines general director duong tri thanh said saturday .
of the 21 , 18 were foreigners .
south korea hopes vietnam will not quarantine samsung experts .
the south korean envoy has expressed concern samsung may suffer huge losses if 1,000 south korean experts are isolated upon arrival in vietnam .
if experts and engineers of samsung electronics enter vietnam and are placed in quarantine for 14 days , this giant can suffer great damage , ambassador park noh-wan told reporters in hanoi friday .
samsung needs to bring in another 1,000 experts to vietnam to support production line operations , he said .
vietnam has suspended entry for those arriving from daegu city and north gyeongsang province , south korea 's two largest covid-19 outbreak areas , over the past two weeks .
those arriving from south korea are automatically quarantined for 14 days as a preventive measure .
the south korean embassy in vietnam has proposed that the vietnamese government adjusts its policy , allowing representatives of korean businesses , including experts and engineers of samsung and lg , to enter the country and not be quarantined .
south koreans with diplomatic and official passports should also be considered for this policy , park said , adding that all people with a medical certificate issued by korean medical authorities should be allowed to enter vietnam normally .
park said the number of south koreans coming to vietnam has plummeted after vietnam halted visa waivers for south korean nationals starting february 29 .
during the first two months of this year , only 100 south koreans arrived every day , compared with the previous figure of 13,000 , he said .
the ambassador said that from march 7 , vietnamese airlines are suspending all flights to south korea .
previously , there were 80 non-stop flights every day between vietnam and south korea , around 550 flights per week .
about 170,000 south koreans live in vietnam now .
i hope that the two countries will take effective measures to prevent the ( covid-19 ) epidemic ( from spreading ) but not affect the two countries ' long-term relations , he said .
south korea sent three emergency response teams to vietnam thursday to provide consular support to more than 270 citizens quarantined over the novel coronavirus outbreak .
the teams plan to stay in vietnam for a week starting thursday , but they could decide to extend their stay if needed .
they will discuss with vietnamese authorities the possibility of lifting the quarantine , while helping citizens who want to return home and those facing visa and other consular problems .
south korea is one of vietnam 's biggest trade partners and investors .
the country is the second-largest feeder market of vietnamese tourism , after china .
samsung , the world 's biggest smartphone maker , is the largest foreign investor in vietnam , employing around 160,000 people .
samsung electronics have begun construction on a $ 220 million research and development center in hanoi .
samsung electronics said on friday that it would temporarily move some smartphone production to vietnam from south korea , according to reuters .
the announcement was made after another of its korean staff tested positive for the coronavirus , forcing it to temporarily close a factory in the southern city of gumi in south korea .
since late february , a total of six workers have tested positive at the factory complex in gumi , close to the city of daegu - the epicentre of south korea 's virus outbreak - leading to previous temporary closures at the plant .
once the covid-19 situation stabilises , we plan to move back the output to gumi , it said in a statement .
the vietnamese government has deployed various measures to prevent the spread of the virus , including requiring everyone coming from mainland china , italy , iran , and south korea , the worst-hit countries so far , to be quarantined for at least 14 days on arrival .
25 people in contact with hanoi 's first coronavirus patient test negative .
25 of 33 people who 'd come into close contact with hanoi 's first covid-19 patient and vietnam 's 17th have tested negative for the novel coronavirus .
the personal chauffeur and an aunt of 26-year-old nguyen hong nhung were confirmed positive for novel coronavirus on saturday afternoon , while six others have been asked to submit blood samples for covid-19 testing .
nguyen nhat cam , director of hanoi center for disease control , said 25 quick response teams in the city investigated the case and made a list of those at risk of being infected by the patient .
at least 200 people had been quarantined as of saturday morning .
hanoi extends school closure after first covid-19 case .
high school students in hanoi will stay home until march 15 , another week later than previously scheduled , as the city 's first novel coronavirus case was confirmed on friday .
high school students in the capital city were earlier scheduled to return to school on march 9 onwards while kindergartens , elementary schools , and middle schools would remain closed until the end of the week .
however , the city 's party leader vuong dinh hue decided at an urgent meeting saturday morning that all schools from kindergarten to high school levels in the city will remain closed for another week .
the city plans to broadcast teaching sessions on television from monday to help ninth grade and 12th-grade students , who have to take graduation exams this year , keep up with their programs .
hanoi recorded friday night its first covid-19 patient , a 26-year old woman returning from europe .
it was the first case in vietnam after 22 straight days of recording no new infection .
hcmc vice chairman le thanh liem said that students returning to school early is a common wish of the public , but the city can not take rash decisions as the top priority is the health and safety of the people .
the city had no covid-19 infection as of friday , while four cases of suspected infection were still awaiting test results , according to the city 's health department .
a total of 567 people were still being quarantined at centralized quarantine facilities and 526 people others quarantined at home .
the covid-19 outbreak broke out in china 's wuhan city , hubei province late december last year .
by friday , the disease had infected over 100,000 people worldwide and killed 3,412 , mostly chinese citizens .
hanoi chairman calls for calm after latest covid-19 case .
hanoi chairman nguyen duc chung has asked residents not to panic but to remain alert as the capital records its first novel coronavirus infection .
a 26-year old vietnamese woman returning from europe became the 17th case in vietnam after the nation had gone 22 days with no new infection , authorities confirmed late friday night .
the patient has been quarantined and is undergoing treatment at campus no.2 of the hanoi central hospital for tropical diseases .
i urge hanoi people to stay calm and yet remain on high alert , chung told the media friday night .
soon after information about the new infection was released , hanoi residents rushed to buy food and essential supplies at supermarkets for stocking up at home so as to avoid going out and contacting too many people in the coming days .
saying that hanoi has the highest risk of hosting an outbreak as residents of almost all 90 countries and territories hit by the new coronavirus so far are now living and working in the city , chung said .
i urge everyone to be aware of the risks of infection and how dangerous the epidemic is .
everyone returning to vietnam from abroad needs to report themselves to the authorities and follow the quarantine protocol as regulated .
the authorities are still tracking down anyone that has been in close contact with this patient so as to quarantine them , he said .
for now , 29 such people have been identified .
the latest covid-19 patient had left hanoi 's noi bai airport on february 15 to visit family members in london , england .
three days later , she travelled from london to milan city in the italian province lombardy and returned to london on february 20 .
during her time in milan , lombardy had not recorded any covid-19 positive case .
on february 25 , the woman travelled from london to paris to visit her sister .
she contracted a cough on february 29 , but did not get her health checked by a doctor .
on march 1 , she reportedly felt body pain and fatigue , but it was unclear if she had a fever .
the same day , she boarded flight vn54 of vietnam airlines from london and landed in hanoi at 4.30 a.m on march 2 .
she did not have a fever then .
after completing entry procedures , the patient was allowed to drive a family car home to truc bach street in ba dinh district 's truc bach ward .
later , she developed a mild fever and a severe cough , and was admitted to the hong ngoc hospital in ba dinh district thursday .
the very same day , she was transferred to the central hospital for tropical diseases where she tested positive for the novel coronavirus .
eight of the patient 's family members – her father , uncle , five janitors , and a personal chauffeur are also being isolated at the central hospital for tropical diseases .
all are reportedly healthy , with no signs of fever or cough .
seventeen doctors from hong ngoc hospital who had been in contact with the patient are also being isolated at the hospital , and in good health .
flight vn54 had carried 201 passengers and crew members , and authorities are in the process of verifying their names and whereabouts .
after vietnam reported its 16th covid-19 infection on february 13 , the nation went 22 days without detecting any new case .
all the 16 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals .
as of friday , 23,228 people were being isolated at home or in communal facilities across the country , an increase of 9,000 compared to the day before , while another 101 infection suspects are being isolated in hospitals .
the covid-19 outbreak broke out in china 's wuhan city , hubei province in late december last year .
by friday , the disease had infected over 102,200 people worldwide and killed 3,495 , mostly chinese citizens .
italy had recorded more than 4,600 infections as of saturday morning with 197 deaths , making it the country with the second-highest number of deaths after china .
kimchi ranks among the top healthy foods .
kimchi is one of the most popular traditional korean food .
this dish is made by fermenting vegetables ( mainly napa cabbage and cabbage ) and chili , which has a sour and spicy taste .
kimchi is used in most meals and is an ingredient in many other korean dishes .
although there are hundreds of different types of kimchi , most types of kimchi have a strong and spicy aroma .
kimchi has a long history .
in korea , vegetables and fruits do not survive in the winter due to the cold weather , leading to food shortages during this time .
therefore , koreans have fermented vegetables as food reserves for the winter .
some people think that kimchi may have appeared about 2,600-3,000 years ago .
coach , footballers among top social media influencers in vietnam .
coach park and two footballers nguyen quang hai and nguyen cong phuong have been listed among leading vietnamese social media influencers in january .
according to the buzzmetric website , hai was the most influential footballer on social networks in vietnam in january .
the 23-year-old midfielder came in at fourth place with 29,430 points on the social media index , followed by coach park hang-seo at fifth ( 28,516 ) and phuong at seventh ( 19,228 ) .
however , coach park had more posts and comments on social media ( 278,536 ) than hai ( 140,625 ) and phuong ( 102,015 ) .
buzzmetrics compiled the data based on coverage , interaction , events and other factors .
topping the list was comedian , tv host tran thanh , followed by rapper den vau and pop singer son tung m-tp .
quang hai is a crucial player for both the national team and hanoi fc , while cong phuong is finding his form at hcmc fc , scoring in two consecutive games of the afc cup .
phuong 's return to vietnam from belgium has attracted a lot of attention from the media and fans .
vietnam requires health declaration from all arrivals .
everyone arriving in vietnam from overseas will need to fill out health declaration forms starting this saturday .
deputy pm vu duc dam , head of the national steering committee on covid-19 prevention and control , issued the order at a meeting friday .
the arrivals can choose to file the declaration in paper or electronic form , via the preventive health department website .
the ministry of health also requires those with symptoms like cough , fever , shortness of breath , and fatigue to be examined and quarantined .
vietnam already required those arriving from mainland china , south korea , iran , and italy , the worst-hit countries , to be quarantined for at least 14 days .
the covid-19 epidemic has been spreading rapidly worldwide , affecting 89 countries and territories , with deaths reported across the world .
more than 98,000 cases have been recorded worldwide , including 3,385 deaths , most of them in mainland china , but also in italy ( 148 ) , iran ( 108 ) and south korea ( 40 ) .
no new case has been diagnosed in vietnam since february 13 .
vietnam now tests for coronavirus in 24 hours .
the time it takes vietnamese experts to test for coronavirus infection has come down from four or five days to one .
it now takes experts at hanoi 's national institute of hygiene and epidemiology ( nihe ) just 10-11 hours to make an accurate diagnosis from dna sequencing .
at the beginning of the outbreak patients had to wait several days for the result .
nihe has built up large stocks of test kits for screening vietnamese nationals returning from south korea , one of the main epidemic-hit nations and with a death toll so far of 33 .
a vietnamese is among the 5,328 diagnosed there as infected as of wednesday .
vuong duc cuong , a researcher at nihe 's virology department , said the institute currently receives around 70 samples a day on average , requiring its personnel to work overtime to deliver results quickly .
after cultivating and isolating the virus , nihe transfers positive samples to a number of units to develop rapid test kits .
the state-owned vaccine and biological production no.1 company has already started research to find vaccines using the samples .
there are 30 facilities including hospitals approved by the ministry of health to test for covid-19 , and all of them use nihe test kits .
on wednesday the number of people suspected to have the coronavirus infection in vietnam was 77 .
none of them are in hanoi , ho chi minh city or da nang , vietnam 's three largest cities .
over 10,000 people have so far been quarantined in field hospitals or monitored .
while no new cases have been detected since february 13 in vietnam , and all 16 who had tested positive have been discharged , the global death toll continues to climb , with the epidemic now reaching 76 countries and territories .
the death toll is 3,203 , 2981 in mainland china , 79 in italy , 77 in iran , 33 in south korea , nine in the us , and 12 in japan , including six on a cruise ship .
one-legged cinderella in vietnam finds her prince .
be thi bang had given up all notions of romance after losing a leg in an accident , but fate had different plans for her .
the 33-year-old , an ethnic tay , was born in northern cao bang province , graduated from the thai nguyen university of medicine and pharmacy , and was working for a dental clinic in hanoi .
in 2012 a truck ran over her as she was walking on the street .
when she recovered consciousness after four days , she found her right leg had been amputated at the hip .
she tried to adjust to her new life , learning to walk with a prosthetic leg and a crutch .
she says , i thought i was lucky to be alive .
i did not dare dream of love .
but she started to get her life back on track .
she returned to work , practiced dancing on one leg and threw herself into voluntary activities .
life went on until one day in mid-2016 everything changed .
she was seeing her friend off at the airport when she came across a german tourist , oturak be .
seeing him struggle with a map , she offered to give him a hand .
perhaps that was destiny , she says with a smile .
after a few days , she accidentally met him again in the west lake area .
they became friends and spent a lot of time exploring vietnam together .
they also visited cao bang , her hometown .
at first , he had no idea about her disability since she used an artificial limb , and only knew the truth when she showed him a video recording of her dancing on only one leg .
surprised he praised her .
how can you dance so beautifully ? do you know how much i love arabian and persian dances ?
one day he confessed to being in love with her , but she said , give me more time .
when he was about to return home , he surprisingly proposed to her .
but , thinking she did not deserve him , she rejected it .
her heart was shouting i accept , but her mind stopped her from doing so .
she was afraid she would be a burden .
oturak then wrote her a long letter saying .
please do not say that .
dragon fruit bread of vietnam on international newspapers .
this bread shows that vietnam is ready to face the effects of coronavirus , said business insider .
business insider reported , a bakery in vietnam has created a new type of bread , to take advantage of tons of unsold dragon fruit [ stuck , unable to be exported to china ] due to coronavirus outbreak .
a large number of dragon fruits can not be exported , as vietnam has closed most of its border with china due to coronavirus concerns .
in an effort to take advantage of the surplus of agricultural products , the chain of abc bakery in ho chi minh city has developed a new formula - producing fresh pink bread batches , replacing 60 percent of water in the flour mixture by dragon fruit smoothie .
even as the chain rapidly ramped up production to produce 20,000 loaves of dragon fruit bread a day .
last week abc bakery said every customer just buy five loaves at a time .
business insider reporter came here to experience and commented , the pink bread stands out .
although it was created to rescue crop in the coronavirus outbreak , it looks just like a piece of work to post on instagram .
it 's delicious , with a crispy outer layer , cool inside , full of flavor .
business insider said , this bread shows that vietnam is ready to face the effects of coronavirus .
italy became the largest covid-19 outbreak in europe , with 888 people infected .
the number of covid-19 infections in italy increased sharply from 650 on february 28th to 888 according to data published on february 29th .
out of 888 people infected , 21 were killed , 46 were cured and discharged from hospital .
most cases reported in the lombardy region are 531 cases .
it is also the region where the majority of the deaths of covid-19 are recorded in italy .
italy is currently the largest outbreak in europe and the third in the world after china and south korea .
many countries in europe , such as greece , spain , england , croatia , austria , denmark , germany , france , and the netherlands , have reported new cases with most patients returning from italy .
especially in germany , france reported a sharp increase in the number of recent cases including 60 cases in germany and 57 cases in france .
in france , 2 patients died .
speaking at a meeting with italian prime minister giuseppe conte in napoli on february 27 , french president emmanuel macron said that the fight against covid-19 could only be successful with full cooperation at both the european and international community .
brazil on february 28 confirmed that a citizen from italy tested positive for covid-19 .
this is also the first country in latin america with the case of the disease .
in the face of a complicated epidemic , many european countries have stepped up measures to prevent and recommend citizens not to come to areas affected by the epidemic in italy .
however , italy officials still seek to reassure the visitors , affirming their country as a safe and welcoming country .
secretive energy startup backed by bill gates achieves solar breakthrough .
a secretive startup backed by bill gates has achieved a solar breakthrough aimed at saving the planet .
heliogen , a clean energy company that emerged from stealth mode on tuesday , said it has discovered a way to use artificial intelligence and a field of mirrors to reflect so much sunlight that it generates extreme heat above 1,000 degrees celsius .
essentially , heliogen created a solar oven — one capable of reaching temperatures that are roughly a quarter of what you 'd find on the surface of the sun .
the breakthrough means that , for the first time , concentrated solar energy can be used to create the extreme heat required to make cement , steel , glass , and other industrial processes .
in other words , carbon-free sunlight can replace fossil fuels in a heavy carbon-emitting corner of the economy that has been untouched by the clean energy revolution .
we are rolling out technology that can beat the price of fossil fuels and also not make the co2 emissions , bill gross , heliogen 's founder and ceo , told cnn business .
and that 's really the holy grail .
heliogen , which is also backed by billionaire los angeles times owner patrick soon-shiong , believes the patented technology will be able to dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industry .
for example , cement production activities accounts for 7 percent of global co2 emissions , according to the international energy agency .
sonic the hedgehog setbox office record for video game movie .
collecting an estimated $ 57 million in ticket sales in north america last week , sonic the hedgehog has become the highest-grossing opening ever for a video game adaptation , surpassing the previous $ 54 million record held by detective pikachu .
in the markets outside of north america , sonic the hedgehog 's overseas debut performance received warm responses from audiences , earning an estimated $ 44.3 million after its first three-day screening .
based on the global blockbuster video game of sega created in 1991 , sonic the hedgehog concentrates on sonic ( voiced by ben schwartz ) , a hedgehog with sprint power at supersonic speeds , and his exciting adventure to discover the life on earth .
sonic pairs up with police chief tom ( james marsden ) to pit themselves against the evil guy 's plot , dr. robotnik ( jim carrey ) .
until now , the titles of the hedgehog movies have sold hundreds of millions of copies worldwide .
however , the film adaption process for the hedgehog was really arduous .
a new solution for america 's empty churches .
over the past few decades , vacant and underutilized churches have become a familiar sight in american cities .
in some cases , a congregation or a religious governing body -- say , a catholic diocese -- will sell the church to developers , who then turn them into apartments , offices , art galleries , museums , breweries or performance spaces .
but what about churches in neighborhoods that are n't doing well , areas that are less attractive to developers looking to turn a profit ? in buffalo , new york , two empty roman catholic churches were recently converted -- not into apartments or offices , but into other places of worship .
one became an islamic mosque , the other a buddhist temple .
as an architect and historic preservation planner , i was drawn to this phenomenon .
with the help of enjoli hall , who was then a graduate student at university at buffalo , i interviewed those involved in converting the former churches .
with immigrant and refugee populations growing in post-industrial cities across the us , the conversion of vacant christian churches into new places of worship can preserve historic architecture and strengthen burgeoning communities .
buffalo has shown how faith-to-faith church conversions can be a win-win situation for everyone involved , the diocese gets to sell a redundant property , immigrants can acquire a property that will strengthen their community , and the city builds its tax base by attracting new residents to the area .
the mission to drill through the earth 's crust .
last month , floating in the ocean south of new zealand , a team of scientists were investigating the end of the dinosaurs and trying to predict the future .
they were unspooling earth 's history , raising up sections of sediment and ancient rock from beneath the south pacific .
with these samples , scientists are probing some of our most longstanding , and most urgent , questions , what happened in the wake of the dinosaurs ? what happens to life when the planet dramatically warms or cools ? can millions of years of earth history tell us where we 're heading ?
the abyss may hold the answers .
study says female filmmakers made major gains in 2019 .
lulu wang , lorene scafaria , melina matsoukas and greta gerwig led hollywood to a record year for women in film directing .
in 2019 , women directed more of the most popular movies than in any year before .
women directed 12 of the top 100 most profitable films in 2019 .
that is the finding of a study released thursday by usc annenberg inclusion initiative .
that percentage of female filmmakers , 10.6 , is greater than researchers have recorded before .
it suggests change is finally coming to a film industry where inequality in directing has remained common .
the past high in usc 's yearly study was eight percent , in 2008 .
in 2018 , only 4.5 percent of the year 's top films were directed by women .
this is the first time we have seen a shift in hiring practices for female film directors in 13 years , said stacy l. smith , a writer of the study .
she noted that universal pictures alone had five films with women directors in the top 100 movies .
the success of several of these films had already made 2019 a historic one for women .
wang 's the farewell is one of the year 's most popular independent releases .
scafaria 's hustlers sold more than $ 100 million worth of tickets .
also on the list was matsoukas ' queen & slim and gerwig 's little women .
frozen ii with $ 1.2 billion in worldwide ticket sales , is close to setting a new box-office record for a movie directed by a woman .
jennifer lee , who co-directed , set the record with the first frozen film .
other notable films included kasi lemmons ' harriet , tina gordon 's little and jill culton 's abominable .
usc researchers singled out universal pictures , where women directed 26 percent of the studio 's films last year .
universal 's chief , donna langley , is the only woman to lead a major movie studio .
paramount pictures , in contrast , has not released a female-directed movie in the last five years .
films from the streaming company netflix largely bypass theaters so they remain outside the study 's limits .
however , women directed 20 percent of netflix 's 2019 movies .
the center for the study of women in television and film at san diego state university released a separate study thursday .
it examined women in the top films as not just directors but writers , producers , executive producers , editors , and cinematographers .
women accounted for 20 percent of all such work in 2019 's top films , up from 16 percent the year before .
china penalizes irresponsible officials in the fightagainst corona virus .
earlier this week , when leading a meeting of the politburo standing committee of the chinese communist party , chinese president xi jinping expressed his resolute opposition against bureaucracy and the practice of formalities in taking preventive action .
he declared those who ignore the general guidelines or are irresponsible will be punished .
on february 4 , an official of red cross society in hubei province and a government official in wuhan city ( hubei ) were removed from their duties .
moreover , two other government officials in wuhan were penalized and a health official in another city in hubei province was fired .
development of low-cost devices for quick identification of various viruses .
it was on december 23 that the pennsylvania state university ( us ) released a study with the content that a device giving us a hand to quickly identify the various strains of viruses has been developed by researchers in this country .
it is estimated that about 1.67 million unknown viruses are in animals , some of which canspread the disease to human .
a number of viruses that can be transmitted to human such as h5n1 , zika and ebola have led to outbreaks of disease and many deaths .
this is exactly why researchers at pennsylvania state university and new york university have developed a handheld device with the aim to quickly test viruses at an affordable price .
it is called virrion .
by virtue of its small size and low cost , such this device will give assistance to clinics along with remote locations where disease outbreaks occur .
besides , scientists have expectations that this device can be useful for identifying the infected portion of viruses , whereby it is possible to handle it effectively on the evolution of the virus at the right moment .
7 things need to invest as soon as profitable , an empty hand is no lure for a hawk !
everyone wants to hold money in their hands but sometimes investing for health , future and happiness is also get one 's money 's worth .
money is a kind of tool that can improve our lives .
sometimes , just spending a little extra money ( as long as not too much ) , we will own the products , services , and experiences that are extremely valuable and beneficial to us .
here are 7 things that you should not regret investing in early .
protect health .
our health is priceless .
whether you choose to buy expensive health insurance at work , register for a gym card or buy organic food , do n't feel guilty of spending large sums of money on them , especially when you are getting physical and mental problems .
buy insurance to protect yourself .
life insurance and disability insurance are required .
even if it costs a small amount every month , disability insurance will be an important source of income in case you are unable to work due to illness .
meanwhile , life insurance will pay a significant amount if you die .
buy things that are fun or save time .
spend money on experiences , services and products make you happy or makes your life comfortable .
if a daily latte , a bottle of shower gel or a first-class airline ticket helps you improve your life , without distracting from the financial goals you set earlier , feel free to reward yourself .
spending money wisely is a balance between your actual needs and your desires .
buy the things you have saved money to buy .
if you plan to buy a home , take luxury travel or buy a new car , you have had to save and save for months , even years .
you may find it difficult to break up with that money , but the money should be spent purposefully .
hire financial management experts .
if you feel lazy or indecisive in your finances , spend money to hire helpers .
researchers have shown that people who work with financial advisers are generally happier , more confident and more stable in their personal lives .
a financial planner can help you identify your most important goals and come up with a plan to achieve them .
buy important products with good quality .
people rarely consider a good mattress , a pair of shoes , a suitcase or skincare products to be a beneficial investment .
however , if they improve your quality of life , the money is totally worth it .
if you have to travel often , you should buy good suitcases .
if you have sensitive skin , you should buy expensive products .
if you sleep better on an expensive rubber mattress , do n't regret the money but go on other options .
invest money in the stock market .
for emergency reserve funds or any savings , you plan to use over the next few months or years , keep them in cash .
for the extra money , you should spend it on investment .
almost everyone is afraid of losing money so they do not dare to invest .
however , the stock market is one of the very effective tools if you want to accumulate property .
no one can guarantee that it will always be profitable for you , but if you just sit outside and watch , you will never know how it can help you get rich .
if you have to travel often , you should buy good suitcases .
if you have sensitive skin , you should buy expensive products .
if you sleep better on an expensive rubber mattress , do n't regret the money but go on other options .
how technology is helping african farms to flourish .
a farmer 's fortunes bloom and wither with the seasons .
it can be precarious work , and a bad year can leave fields barren and grain sheds empty -- slim pickings on which to survive until the next harvest .
more than half of working africans have jobs in agriculture , but poor infrastructure , inadequate tools and a lack of investment have left the continent 's mostly small-scale farms struggling to feed a growing population .
now , a wave of technological solutions is aiming to help .
in ghana , a company called acquahmeyer rents out drones that help small-scale farmers check the health of crops and use pesticides only where it is needed , reducing pollution and health risks .
chief operations officer kenneth a. nelson says , ghanaian vegetables were not making it to the eu countries because of pesticide residues on the fruit and vegetables .
with drones , farmers can identify pests and disease to determine exactly which crops need spraying , nelson says .
thanks to the reduced use of chemicals ( pesticide use dropped 50 percent in some cases ) , it 's easier for farmers to meet eu countries ' regulatory limits .
the company started in june 2018 with two drones and now has 10 .
it makes an annual profit of $ 15,000 to $ 30,000 per drone , after operations and administration costs .
with more than 15 million hectares ( 37 million acres ) of agricultural land in ghana , demand for drones is only growing , says nelson .
volkswagen makes every effort to remain the position of the world 's largest car manufacturer .
german automaker volkswagen announced its business outcomes in 2019 , which pointed out that its sales that year hit a record of 10.970.000 units and surpassed 10.830.000 units in 2018 .
with these results , volkswagen believes in the capability to maintain its position as the world 's leading automaker which it attained in 2018 after defeating other rivals including renault-nissan-mitsubishi alliance as well as toyota .
the above results demonstrate the favorable business situation of volkswagen in spite of the general dip in the global automobile market .
this associates with the growth in its market sales .
its sales go up , rise thanks to its positive business outcomes in germany , the us , and brazil markets , whereas , its sales in the asia-pacific market experienced a downtrend .
the world 's largest automaker used to be predominated by general motors for over 7 decades before being taken over by toyota in 2008 .
new research shows men are more prone to corona virus than women .
statistics at jinyintan hospital , which receives a large number of corona pneumonia patients in wuhan city , show that more men are infected than women .
according to the south china morning post , a statistic based on 99 patients with coronary pneumonia being treated at jinyintan hospital in wuhan city - the focus of the outbreak , shows that it seems men more susceptible to infections than females .
the study , which was just published in the medical journal the lancet on january 29 , was conducted by a team of doctors at jinyintan hospital , in conjunction with researchers from shanghai jiaotong university and shanghai ruijin hospital .
the study was based on data from 99 patients , including 67 men and 32 women , who were hospitalized in wuhan from january 1-20 .
scientists have found that nearly half of these people are infected in groups .
on january 21 , chinese authorities officially confirmed the case of human-to-human transmission .
we observed more men than women in 99 cases of 2019-ncov infection .
it is reported that male is more susceptible to mers-cov and sars-cov than female , the study said .
mers-cov is the virus that causes respiratory syndrome in the middle east ( 2012-2016 ) , while sars-cov causes an acute respiratory syndrome that killed 800 people worldwide in 2003 .
both are coronaviruses .
the fact that women are less sensitive to the virus may be due to the protection of x chromosomes and sex hormones , which play an important role in innate and adaptive immunity , said the scientists .
half of these 99 patients are people with chronic conditions like heart disease and diabetes .
the mortality rate for this 99 patient sample was 11 percent , lower than the 15 percent of the sample of 41 patients previously studied by chinese scientists .
49 percent of these infected patients are related to the south china market , a seafood wholesale in wuhan city .
currently this market is still considered a source of disease outbreaks .
vietnam has successfully cultured and isolated ncov virus .
this is information published by the national institute of hygiene & epidemiology ( nihe ) on february 7 .
specifically , the institute has cultured and successfully isolated ncov in the laboratory .
this successful culture will contribute to rapid testing of ncov infections and suspected cases .
and with this , every dayvietnam will be able to test thousands of specimens in case of need .
mr. dang duc anh - director of the national institute of hygiene and epidemiology said that the virus was isolated from samples collected from infected patients in vietnam .
currently , vietnam has more than 1,000 people returning from china and nearly 500 of whom have close contact with people infected with ncov are isolated , monitored , monitored and waiting for test results .
this will be the basis for the research and development of vaccines against this virus in the future and also promote in making more effective preventive measures .
the strange pneumonia virus in china which is similar to sars , probably originates from bats .
chinese scientists say the strange strain of pneumonia virus may have a common origin with the sars virus and originated from fruit bats .
a team of researchers from the chinese academy of sciences , the people 's liberation army and the pasteur institute of shanghai used computer simulation data to analyze the impact of viruses on cells in the respiratory system of human .
according to the latest research of scientists , this virus is weaker than sars but still very dangerous .
hku9-1 , the new virus shares the same origin with sars , have been found in fruit bats .
the natural host of the strange pneumonia virus appearing in wuhan may be a bat ..
but between bats and humans may have an unknown source of mediators , the research team said , according to the south china morning post .
on january 22 , gao fu , director of the china centers for disease control and prevention , confirmed the link between the virus and wildlife .
according to director gao , the strange strain of pneumonia virus that has recently spread from wild animals is on sale at wuhan city 's seafood market .
he also warned that the strain is changing and adapting , creating a great challenge for humans .
earlier , experts said that the new virus could not cause a serious outbreak like sars because of different genes .
however , new research shows that like sars , the virus targets a protein called act3 .
upon further examination of the viral structure , the scientists found that its overall protein binding was highly similar to that of sars .
in 2002-2003 , the sars outbreak broke out in china and killed nearly 800 people worldwide .
research is still ongoing to be able to fully analyze information about the new strain , how it is transmitted , and the consequences for humans .
wildfires in australia , heavy rain appeared , becoming a savior for firefighters !
the bbc 's reporter said that raining in some areas of wildfires in australia helped bring down the temperature .
however , officials have warned that major fires are still likely to continue in the coming days .
recently , the heavy rains have appeared on the east coast of australia , from sydney to melbourne .
heavy rains have also occurred in some parts of new south wales ( nsw ) .
local officials said the rains were a savior for firefighters and areas damaged by wildfires .
however , they gave a warning that temperatures would continue to rise on thursday and that the fires in victoria and nsw could merge again , creating huge , intense fires .
mr. gladys berejiklian , nsw governor-general , said this morning , this is not the time to be happy when more than 130 fires broke out across the state .
what happened this morning is just a recovery , which can guarantee that people have moved to a safe place .
although the heat has been temporarily reduced , the pollution from smoke from forest fires is still very high and dangerous .
currently , the australian national museum in canberra is closed to minimize risks to people , staff , and works of art .
the australian national university ( anu ) also ceased operations .
the victoria meteorological department warns that visibility is now less than 1km in some parts of melbourne and surrounding areas .
this weekend is the worst time of the wildfire crisis in australia , with thousands of areas burned .
the big streets and cities are engulfed in the red sky phenomenon , filled with dust , which is making the air become mysterious .
due to changing weather , the 5 states of the country have not received an emergency alert on monday .
previously , victoria had 25 watch and act alerts , south australia received one alert .
in nsw , all the alerts were at the lowest level , advice .
however , the government said it is time to prepare a response plan when the wildfire could break out again .
burning from december 28 , wildfires in australia devastated three states , killing 24 people and destroying nearly 2,000 houses , killing nearly 500,000 animals .
thousands of tourists and residents have been stranded at the beaches , as this is the peak season of the summer vacation .
in order to evacuate people from the danger zone , two naval vessels were mobilized to the waters off the town of mallacoota ( victoria ) , others in towns with damaged roads were removed by helicopters .
meanwhile , prime minister scott morrison said that more than 100 thousand aud ( 69 thousand usd ) will be used for relief work and pledged aud 2 billion for remedial activities in the next 2 years .
in addition , he canceled a visit to india - scheduled to take place this week , due to a severe forest fire crisis .
in addition , the new zealand government said it would send more firefighters next week to support neighboring countries to cope with uncontrolled wildfires .
the coal power plant will increase 19,223 premature deaths in vietnam by 2030 .
a report of harvard university about the burden of disease from the emission of coal power plants in southeast asia said that coal emissions in this region will triple by 2030 , the most serious in indonesia and vietnam .
southeast asia has a very high population density and is on the way of rapid development .
in particular , the majority of electricity demand growth is expected to be met by coal power .
electricity demand in 2035 in asean is forecast to increase by 83 percent compared to 2011 , double the global average .
from a detailed analysis of coal-fired power plants currently being planned or under construction in southeast asia , the burden of diseases burden from emissions of coal-fired power plants in southeast asia of harvard university scientists said that coal emissions in the region will triple by 2030 , the most serious in indonesia and vietnam .
it is expected that by 2030 , the number of coal power plants in vietnam will increase to 133 .
the report estimates that coal plants will cause 4,252 premature deaths in vietnam in 2011 , and increase to 19,223 premature deaths by 2030 .
in 2011 , most premature deaths were caused by ischemic heart disease ( 6470 ) and stroke ( 5970 ) .
the premature death rate is the highest in indonesia ( 7480 deaths per year ) , followed by vietnam ( 4250 deaths per year ) .
china suffered the third-highest premature mortality rate after indonesia and vietnam with 3150 deaths each year .
in 2030 , in the context of southeast asia 's electricity generation is still expected to depend on coal .
analysis of the report shows that a cost must be paid for human health is very serious .
the report estimates that around 20,000 premature deaths each year due to coal pollution from power plants currently operating in southeast asia , of which indonesia and vietnam are the two countries most affected .
these numbers could rise to about 70,000 deaths each year by 2030 if all coal plants currently approved in southeast asia come online .
the highest number of premature deaths will again be in indonesia ( 24,400 premature deaths each year ) , vietnam ( 19,220 premature deaths each year ) .
in addition to indonesia and vietnam , the third is in china , the number of premature deaths is expected annually to be9000 by 2030.china is strongly influenced by air pollution because this country is near southeast asia .
myanmar will have the fourth highest mortality rate in 2030 .
now indonesia is planning 176 new coal plants by 2030 , of which 75 are under construction .
the risks come from bitcoin .
as bitcoin and other digital assets continue to grow , a common topic for discussion is whether the us government , or any government for that matter , can exert control of its use .
there are two core issues that lay the foundation of the bitcoin regulation debate , .
the digital assets pose a macro-economic risk .
bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies can act as surrogates for an international currency , which throws global economics a curveball .
for example , countries such as russia , china , venezuela , and iran have all explored using digital currency to circumvent united states sanctions , which puts the us government at risk of losing its global authority .
international politics and economics are a very delicate issue , and often sanctions are used in place of military boots on the ground , arguably making the world a safer place .
the micro risks enabled by cryptocurrency weigh heavily in aggregate .
one of the most attractive features of bitcoin and other digital assets is that one can send anywhere between a few pennies-worth to billions of dollars of bitcoin anywhere in the world at any time for a negligible fee ( currently around $ 0.04 to $ 0.20 depending on the urgency . ) .
however , in the hands of malicious parties , this could be very dangerous .
the illicit activities inherently supported by a global decentralized currency run the gamut , terrorist funding , selling and buying illegal drugs , ordering assassinations , dodging taxes , laundering money , and so on .
meanwhile , at about the same time , a pharmacist near north carolina also developed a tonic called pepsi , but it was n't until 1903 that pepsi 's recipe was patented .
the problem is that this recipe might even have been before coca-cola 's recipe .
pepsi drinks also contain soda and kola seeds , but vanilla is used as the main ingredient in the replacement of coca because it is less anesthetic and tastier .
despite competing in the same market , pepsi made some wrong business decisions .
when coca-cola grew rapidly in the 1920s , pepsi declared bankruptcy in 1923 , only 20 years after being granted a patent .
it was not until 1941 that pepsi was reborn in new york .
here are some notable milestones , .
1880s , pepsi 's recipe was invented .
coca-cola 's recipe was invented .
coca-cola 's recipe was certificated .
pepsi 's recipe was certificated .
the richest musicians of the decade , from taylor swift to beyoncé to lady gaga .
yes , artists may have had to diversify their revenue streams , as people have stopped flocking to the local woolworths or hmv to buy cds , but you can argue that technology has brought huge investment opportunities for artists .
anyone who has waited in an hour-long ticketmaster queue for beyoncé tickets will know that the demand is high , and tickets are as expensive as ever .
as 2019 draws to a close , forbes has amalgamated its annual rich musicians lists to reveal just who has made the most millions throughout the decade , from 2010 - 2020 .
the magazine uses touring data , music consumption numbers , interview agents and managers to assess the estimated wealth of living musicians .
click through for a list of surprising and not-so-surprising revelations as to which musicians have made the big bucks this decade , in ascending order .
the a star is born actress has amassed $ 500 million ( £ 386m ) thanks to the five albums she released throughout the decade ( born this way , artpop , cheek to cheek , joanne and the a star is born album ) and live shows , including her las vegas residency .
the california girl singer has earned $ 530 million ( £ 410m ) over the past 10 years , largely thanks to multiple huge world tours - california dreams , prismatic and witness .
despite the beatles breaking up in 1969 , the 77-year-old has earned $ 535 million ( £ 413m ) between 2010 and 2012 thanks to his ongoing solo career , which has involved world tours , a collaboration with kanye west and rihanna and a number one album with egypt station in 2018 .
the rapper , producer and entrepreneur has earned $ 560 million ( £ 433 m ) over the past ten years , according to forbes .
his accumulation of wealth has mainly come from the many companies he 's built and invested in ( champagne and cognac brands , tidal , art collections and more ) but he 's also earned a tidy sum of money from two tours and an album with beyoncé .
considering all this , it 's no surprise that forbes titled him the first billionaire rapper earlier this year .
google officially unveiled its stadia cloud gaming service .
on november 19 , google officially launched stadia , a livestream and gaming service that let players play games without having a hardware storage device .
the service supports a series of developing games with a reasonable cost .
what was announced by google just several days before launching was that they would furnish 22 games when this service was unveiled , nearly twice as much as the number of titles that the company had pointed out before .
google will compete with a vast of redoubtable rivals in the online gaming industry , laying a bet on the future of video games in cloud computing in lieu of traditional physical hardware devices .
for the time being , microsoft is putting its project xcloud service to the test and amazon is rumored to develop its own cloud-based gaming service .
just before google launched stadia , playstation now , which is a gameplay service on the cloud platform of sony has been on sale lately .
the technology is possible , but it requires a company like a google to really make it a reality , google stadia head phil harrison told cnn business .
while sony 's playstation now service , for example , only works on pc and console , google 's supports a wider mix of platforms .
stadia works on tvs with a chromecast ultra dongle as well as on most computers with a chrome browser and on newer pixel phones .
more devices are slated to be added in 2020 .
the new step in identifying the cause of cancer and diabetes .
it is australian scientists that have moved one step closer to discovering the cause of heart disease , alzheimer 's disease , cancer , diabetes , and other diseases .
as the result of a long-term research , a team of scientists from flinders university in south australia has found out 148 new proteins that are influenced by cells damaged by stress as well as tiredness in the human body .
according to justin chalker who led the study , the above-mentioned new proteins have a relationship with heart disease , drug resistance in cancers and other cellular functions .
according to mr. chalker , this study not only is an important foundation that supplied new signs for biomedical scientists all over the world , but also gives them a chance to understand how the network of proteins work during the process of oxidative stress .
based on the information from the australian institute of health and welfare ( aihw ) , the leading cause of deaths in this nation in 2017 was one of the coronary artery diseases , followed by dementia and alzheimer 's disease along with lung cancer .
an exceeding 2m rise in sea levels is plausible by 2100 .
sea level could additionally rise 2 meters by 2100 and might plunge big cities like new york or shanghai , if global temperature increased 5 censius degree .
this is the latest research results obtained from scientists which was published in the journal proceedings of the national academy of sciences of the united states on 20th may .
fox news saidthat were sea levels to rise more than 2m as scientists announced the possible occurrence , the devastation could be catastrophic .
that the temperature increases by 5 degrees celcius will engender significant declines in ice levels in greenland as well as antarctica .
the recent research results find out that the current sea level rise 3mm annually .
if the worst scenario happens with the global temperature rises by 5 0c , about 1.79 million square kilometers of land , more than three times compared to california state , will be inundated below the sea level and 187 million people , about 2.5 percent of the world population , will be at risk of disappearing together with their accommodation .
why was coca-cola founded before but could not sue pepsi for stealing inventions and pepsi could not accuse coca-cola of copyright infringement ? ( part 1 ) .
the cola war has ended long ago and you may not believe this but coca-cola and pepsi are on the same side !
the following article is shared by robert bonwell parker , a lawyer specializing in litigation and entertainment law .
note that because the subject is related to the two us companies , robert only mentions the laws of this country !
coca-cola and pepsi are currently the top beverage companies in the world .
before getting into the story of coca-cola and pepsi , let 's learn a bit about intellectual property .
one important thing to keep in mind in the case of the two beverage giants , you ca n't defend an idea .
it is not intellectual property and you can only protect an idea once it becomes a product .
intellectual property has four main areas of copyright , patent , trademark and trade secret .
copyright law protects useful things .
the protected group of people is the creator of the product .
when a person creates something , whether it 's a piece of music , a novel , or a smart greeting card , they are all protected by copyright laws .
it is possible for other people to use the same idea but they can not copy the specific way .
patent law protects the development of science .
the protected group is the inventors .
when a person creates a new way to do something , he can claim his patent rights to that item .
patents last only 20 years , and at that time anyone could create a general version of the patent that was granted .
trademark law helps consumers avoid confusion and they are a group of people who are protected but not businesses as people think .
trademarks can be words , symbols or distinctive characteristics that help consumers identify the origin of the products they buy .
the law of business secret has only been officially recognized since 1974 and became intellectual property protected by federal since 2016 .
this law protects business secrets and the subjects protected are mainly companies with many employees .
business secrets laws allow companies to prevent former employees or employees who are working for them from using , selling or disclosing business secrets .
these are the four main areas of intellectual property and the following are answers to many people 's questions , why does n't coca-cola sue pepsi ? .
as we all know , coca-cola was founded in 1886 .
initially , it was created as an alternative to the addictive substance known as morphine ( banned in the southern united states ) by combining derivatives of cocaine ( coca ) and caffeine ( cola , from african kola beans which contain caffeine ) .
coca-cola is patented as a new medication and is sold under the coca-cola brand .
their first logo in 1888 was protected by both trademark law and copyright law .
taylor swift became the artist who received the most trophies in amas history .
swift won six american music awards , taking her all-time total to 29 and breaking michael jackson 's record , surpassing michael jackson 's record of 24 .
the artist of the decade honour was announced well before sunday night 's ceremony , but swift also scooped the biggest prize of the night , artist of the year , from drake , ariana grande , halsey and post malone .
taylor swift deserves to be the most brilliant star of this year 's american music awards 2019 .
taylor swift shared the year of highs and lows as she was named both artist of the year and artist of the decade at the american music awards .
the artist of the decade honour was announced well before sunday night 's ceremony , but swift also scooped the biggest prize of the night , artist of the year .
accepting the award , an emotional swift told the crowd gathered at los angeles ' microsoft theater that the previous 12 months had given her some of the most amazing times as well as the hardest things i 've gone through in my life .
before she accepted the prize for artist of the year , swift followed a video retrospective of her career to date with the performance of a medley of some of her biggest hits , opening with a brief portion of her song the man , which debates how much more successful she would be if she were a male .
during her acceptance speech , swift said the honour celebrated 10 years of hard work and of art and of fun and memories .
she added , all that matters to me is the memories i have had with you guys , with you the fans , over the years .
earlier , swift won favourite pop or rock album for her latest album lover .
her wins make her the most successful amas artist ever , dethroning michael jackson .
selena gomez kicked off the ceremony in her first live tv performance in two years , after undergoing a kidney transplant in 2017 and battling anxiety and depression .
rapper post malone , whose seven nominations were the most of any artist this year , won favourite rap or hip-hop album for hollywood 's bleeding .
pop star halsey won the prize for favourite pop or rock song for her hit without me , and carrie underwood won favourite country artist and country album of the year .
the ceremony included performances from singer toni braxton , 25 years after winning her first ama , who belted out her 1996 pop ballad , un-break my heart .
meanwhile , new artist of the year nominee lizzo treated fans to her single , jerome .
country music star thomas rhett and celebrity couple camila cabello and shawn mendes were also among the performers .
ozzy osbourne , who spent much of 2019 recovering from injuries he suffered in a fall at home , returned to the stage to perform take what you want alongside malone and travis scott .
canadian singer-songwriter shania twain closed the night with a medley of songs – mashing up the biggest hits of the last 12 months with some of her own best-known tracks , including 1998 's that do n't impress me much .
goo hara died at the age of 28 .
according to korean media , goo hara passed away at her home .
the singer tried to commit suicide before .
on november 24 , according to money today , goo hara was found dead at her home at 6,30 pm on the same day , seoul police said .
currently , the police have not announced the cause of the singer 's death .
the k-pop singer 's death comes six months after her manager found her unconscious at her home , in what local media described as an apparent suicide attempt .
the singer and actor later apologised to fans and recently relaunched her solo career with a tour of japan and the release of a new single .
we received notice of goo hara 's condition at 6,30 pm .
the police are investigating the cause of death , the police representative said .
goo hara shared on her sns account , wrote , i have to pretend to be happy while i am tired .
pretend to be nothing happens while i 'm in pain .
after being suffered from all oppression , i 'm broken into pieces from the inside .
goo hara is a former member of the popular korean girl group - kara .
kara has gained many remarkable achievements in the way of music , dominating the japanese market in 2010 .
kara is the first girl group of the land of kimchi to perform at tokyo dome .
the group disbanded in 2016 .
first drug that can slow alzheimer 's dementia .
a us drug company says it has created the first therapy that could slow alzheimer 's disease , and it is now ready to bring it to market .
currently , there are no drugs that can do this - existing ones only help with symptoms .
biogen says it will soon seek regulatory approval in the us for the groundbreaking drug , called aducanumab .
it plans to file the paperwork in early 2020 and has its sights on europe too .
approval processes could take a year or two .
if successful , the company aims to initially offer the drug to patients previously enrolled in clinical studies of the drug .
the announcement is somewhat surprising because the company had discontinued work on the drug in march 2019 , after disappointing trial results .
but the company says a new analysis of a larger dataset of the same studies shows that higher doses of aducanumab can provide a significant benefit to patients with early alzheimer 's , slowing their clinical decline so they preserve more of their memory and every day living skills - things that the disease usually robs .
aducanumab targets a protein called amyloid that forms abnormal deposits the brains of people with alzheimer 's .
scientists think these plaques are toxic to brain cells and that clearing them using drugs would be a massive advance in dementia treatment , although not a cure .
former nasa scientist says they found life on mars in the 1970s .
we may have already discovered the essence of life on mars 40 years ago , according to a former nasa scientist .
gilbert v. levin , who was principal investigator on a nasa experiment that sent viking landers to mars in 1976 , published an article in the scientific american journal last thursday , arguing the experiment 's positive results were proof of life on the red planet .
the experiment , called labeled release ( lr ) , was designed to test martian soil for organic matter .
it seemed we had answered that ultimate question , levin wrote in the article .
in the experiment , the viking probes placed nutrients in mars soil samples -- if life were present , it would consume the food and leave gaseous traces of its metabolism , which radioactive monitors would then detect .
to make sure it was a biological reaction , the test was repeated after cooking the soil , which would prove lethal to known life .
if there was a measurable reaction in the first and not the second sample , that would suggest biological forces at work - and that 's exactly what happened , according to levin .
however , other experiments failed to find any organic material and nasa could n't duplicate the results in their laboratory - so they dismissed the positive result as false positives , some unknown chemical reaction rather than proof of extraterrestrial life .
but now , decades later , there are more and more promising signs .
nasa 's curiosity rover found organic matter on mars in 2018 , and just last week it found sediments that suggest there were once ancient salty lakes on the surface of mars .
reasons to try firefox quantum browser .
mozilla has released a new update of its firefox browser that it says is much faster and provides a better overall user experience .
but can the new version – called firefox quantum – compete with the world 's current top browser , google chrome ?
firefox is an open-source browser created by the not-for-profit mozilla foundation .
the foundation says it has different goals than companies like apple and google , which must focus on making a profit .
mozilla aims to create new products to keep the internet a global public resource that remains open and free to all people .
it urges developers to contribute to its technology and use the firefox source code with other products .
firefox 1.0 launched in 2004 when microsoft 's internet explorer dominated the browser market for personal computers .
firefox also followed the failure of netscape navigator , another major browser that did not survive the competition from internet explorer .
navigator had also been used in mac computers .
but in 2003 , apple released its safari browser , which is still used today .
reasons to try firefox browser .
mozilla has released a new update of its firefox browser that it says is much faster and provides a better overall user experience .
but can the new version – called firefox quantum – compete with the world 's current top browser , google chrome ?
firefox is an open-source browser created by the not-for-profit mozilla foundation .
the foundation says it has different goals than companies like apple and google , which must focus on making a profit .
mozilla aims to create new products to keep the internet a global public resource that remains open and free to all people .
it urges developers to contribute to its technology and use the firefox source code with other products .
firefox 1.0 launched in 2004 when microsoft 's internet explorer dominated the browser market for personal computers .
firefox also followed the failure of netscape navigator , another major browser that did not survive the competition from internet explorer .
navigator had also been used in mac computers .
but in 2003 , apple released its safari browser , which is still used today .
world 's first vagina museum to open .
the vagina museum opened this weekend thanks to a fundraising campaign , with more than 1,000 people donating nearly £ 50,000 , or about 1.5 billion .
florence schechter , director of the museum , said her motivation was very simple , i found out that there is a penis museum in iceland but there is no such place involving women , so i decided to open a museum .
florence said this is still a sensitive topic .
the museum 's first exhibition will take place until the end of february 2020 , named muff busters , vagina myths and how to fight them .
this art exhibition explains misconceptions about gynecology , including hygiene , structure , menstruation , sex , and contraception .
the program also cited yougov 's survey results in march .
sarah creed , exhibition manager , said , it was really surprising that half of the people surveyed did n't know where the vagina is , but i think that 's what everyone knows .
creed also revealed her underwear on display .
when the exhibition is over , the museum wants to focus on the history of menstruation and current socio-political issues .
the museum also displays products that gynecological care women do not really need .
a visitor to the museum .
it also displays gynecological care products that women do n't really need .
the museum also hosts events , shows including comedy and a book club discussing feminist literature .
visitors will receive leaflets and information about vaginal health .
this place also has a shop that sells everything from vagina postcards to cups .
located in camden stables market on chalk farm , the museum welcomes guests from 10 am to 4 pm from monday to saturday , and 11-18 pm sunday .
this place is free to visit , except for events and concerts .
why we need gold and bitcoin ?
in today 's digital age , we live in two worlds , the physical world and the virtual world .
the virtual world can not exist without the physical world ( power outages will attest to this ) .
but we can not exist in today 's physical world without the virtual world ( digital technology has embedded itself into every aspect of life from personal to social to commercial ) .
money , too , now exists in both worlds as cash and metals are being digitized .
the problem , government and banks are finding ways to make the digitization of money work toward their interests and advantages.at the expense of the people .
government 's monopoly over the creation , distribution , and regulation of fiat currency works against the principles of a free market .
free market entails the freedom to use and hold any form of money that fulfills the demands of the market .
the notion of a free society also implies the individual 's right to privacy ( including transactions and asset holdings ) .
government has severely restricted the freedom and privacy of individuals to conduct transactions and hold assets .
government has monopolized money , making the manipulation , management , and artificial creation of money its sole privilege .
this is government 's way of saying to its people , we can manage your wealth better than you can manage it yourself .
gold and bitcoin ( and other acceptable altcoins ) exist beyond this restrictive system .
both operate outside the corruptive influence of government and central bank intervention and control .
intrinsic value , gold has physical intrinsic value—a commodity itself that has value beyond its currency value .
bitcoin 's intrinsic value is its generative process ( algorithm ) and coin limit as well as its underlying technological features and applications .
scarcity , unlike fiat currency , gold is physically mined and finite .
bitcoin ( and a few other altcoins ) is algorithmically mined and finite .
inflation hedge , both gold and bitcoinare hedges against the inflationary degradation of fiat currency .
universal means of exchange , gold and bitcoin are recognized and exchanged across international lines .
forgery-proof , the quantity of gold can be reduced , but its material composition can not be forged .
bitcoin can not be forged .
risk of confiscation , it would be impossible for the government to confiscate your privately-owned physical gold .
such a scenario would be virtually impossible with regard to cryptocurrencies .
in contrast , digitized currency and metals ( via cusip ) can easily be tracked , monitored , taxed , and seized .
gold is the ultimate measure of value in the physical monetary domain .
bitcoin and altcoins rule the digital monetary domain .
wealth in today 's world means owning assets in the form of sound physical and virtual money .
the us manufacturing dives to the lowest level within 10 years .
it was the us manufacturing that carried on slowing down in september , diving to the lowest level since 2009 .
this is the result of a survey announced by the us .
institute for supply management ( ism ) on october 1stbased on the information from ism , this is the second consecutive month of declines of the us manufacturing sector , showing a continuation of the downward trend since march .
what was proclaimed by the agency 's survey was that the september manufacturing index decreased 47,8 percent , a sharp drop in comparison with the number of 49,1 percent of the previous month .
that the manufacturing index was below 50 indicates a step backwards .
a lot of opinions that the trade competition between america and china with the retaliatory tax measure is harmingbusiness and reducing confidence although the american authorities affirmed that this largest economy in the world has not affectedby the trade competition .
can ai now determine a person 's sexual orientation ?
according to some latest reports , artificial intelligence ( ai ) has the ability to accurately identify a person 's sexual orientation by analyzing photos of his face .
a study published in the journal of personality and social psychology showed that ai technology can surmise a person 's sexual orientation by scanning a photo of his face .
the study was conducted by the lead researchers of the study , michal kosinski and yilun wang from the stanford university .
the machine learning software which is used in the research can surmise signs of sexuality by analyzing the differences in facial structures .
with the right data sets , kosinski said that an ai had the ability to see behavioral patterns that humans could not .
also , the researchers claimed that the type of ai technology could also discover intimate traits , for example , a person 's intelligence quotient ( iq ) or political views .
many critics worried about the use of the machine intelligence can violate a person 's privacy as well as is used abused for anti-lgbt purposes .
can the software threat to safety and privacy ?
how the chinese celebrate mid-autumn ?
mid-autumn festival ( moon festival ) is a harvest festival , celebrated in china and other east asian countries , such as vietnam and singapore .
it 's always in september or october , on month 8 day 15 of the chinese lunar calendar .
also called the moon festival or mooncake festival , it is celebrated when the moon is believed to be the biggest and fullest , and mooncake is the main most characteristic festival food .
mid-autumn festival is the second most important festival in china after chinese new year .
to the chinese , the festival means family reunion and harmony .
it is celebrated when the moon is full , and chinese people believe a full moon is a symbol of reunion , harmony , and happiness .
how the chinese celebrate mid-autumn ?
particularly on the evening of mid-autumn festival , chinese people get together with their family .
they eat dinner together with their extended family ( usually three generations ) at the grandparents ' home .
food for the dinner includes duck , taro , and other regional festival foods , which may take most of the afternoon to prepare .
after dinner , the family traditionally offer sacrifices to the moon , in the belief that the moon will bring them good luck .
the offerings may include mooncakes and symbolic fruits .
if the weather is favorable , they then appreciate the bright moon while eating mooncake .
during a bright moon night , many families choose to go outside to a park to gaze at the moon .
other celebration activities include lantern shows and guessing lantern riddles .
there are grand lantern shows in hong kong and zigong ( sichuan province , central china ) .
guilin has also had lantern shows in recent years .
some regions like hong kong hold dragon and lion dances , which draw many participants and spectators .
the special mid-autumn customs of china 's ethnic minorities are also very interesting .
why is the moon festival celebrated ?
in the past , the moon festival was celebrated at harvest time .
ancient chinese emperors worshiped the moon in autumn to thank it for the harvest .
the ordinary people took mid-autumn festival as a celebration of their hard work and harvest .
today , people mainly celebrate the moon festival as a time for family reunions .
when did the moon festival become a festival ?
mid-autumn was first celebrated as a national festival during the northern song dynasty ( 960–1127 ) .
however , the festival has a history of over 3,000 years .
it was derived from the custom of moon worship during the shang dynasty ( c.1600–1046 bc ) .
people have long believed that worshiping the moon and eating together around a round table would bring them good luck and happiness .
what the chinese eat for mid-autumn festival ?
mooncakes are the must-eat mid-autumn food in china .
they are a traditional chinese pastry .
chinese people see in the roundness of mooncakes a symbol of reunion and happiness .
other foods eaten during the festival are harvest foods , such as crabs , pumpkins , pomeloes , and grapes .
people enjoy them at their freshest , most nutritious , and auspicious meanings are particularly associated with round foods .
festival food traditions are also changing .
the younger generation have their own ideas about what should be eaten .
most of them do n't like mooncakes , and prefer to eat what they like .
hundreds of new fires burst forth in the amazon .
on august 26 , hundreds of new fires erupted in the amazon , brazil , regardless of the fact that military aircraft made efforts to put the fire out and the group of seven nations ( g7 ) - the world 's major industrialized countries- gave an assurance to help combat with wildfires raging in this country .
based on the latest figures released by brazil national institute for space research ( inpe ) , it was not until august that the number of forest fires in brazil was 80.626 - the highest number recorded since 2013 .
more than half of the fires took place in brazil basin , where over 20 million citizens are .
in particular , on august 24 and 25 alone , 1.113 new fires burst forth .
having spoken toward the press , what sergio pereira , the director of a children 's hospital in porto velho said was that , in some way we 're all passive smokers .
the smoke can be really aggressive and the most affected are children and the elderly .
a whole range of places of the world 's largest rainforest - inherently playing a substantial role in making efforts to control climate change - have been burnt in the most appalling wildfire disaster for many years .
experts said that increased land clearing during the months-long dry season to make way for crops or grazing has aggravated the problem this year .
on august 26 , brazilian agriculture minister tereza cristina dias said the government would try to prevent forest burning for agricultural land .
in the face of the endangered amazon forest fire , brazilian president jair bolsonaro authorised military operations in seven states in brazil , including rondonia , to fight amazon fires .
currently there are 44,000 troops will be available for unprecedented in amazon region .
a bunch of countries around the world are also busy managing facebook and google .
several years ago , andreas mundt once raised his voice with an aim to raise the alarm about the users ' data collected by tech giants such as facebook or google .
the fact is that a variety of issues andreas mundt mentioned have been the hot spot for the technology world recently .
according to mundt , people are exchanging their own personal data for the purpose of using free online services provided by google as well as facebook .
what mundt said was that we had no other choice , because these companies had no real competitors .
it was in february this year that the germany antitrust agency ruled that facebook was breaking the law .
this verdict required facebook to stop sharing users ' data for game applications on social network or instagram and whatsapp , the two platforms that this social network owns .
this is also the first antitrust ruling on facebook made in europe .
this comes in the context of us lawmakers arguing whether technology giants should be accused of breaching antitrust orders violent or not .
typically , this will be based on considering whether the behavior of an object impacts on user 's interests .
however , this is a very difficult thing to prove with free services like google or facebook .
mushroom hunting gains popularity in us .
what used to be an outdoor activity for only extreme foodies is now becoming more and more popular in many parts of the united states .
i am talking about mushroom hunting ! mushroom hunters – also called foragers -- spend hours , even days , in wooded areas searching for wild mushrooms .
dennis aita lives in new york city .
he has been a mushroom hunter since the 1980s .
he first became interested in them while exploring the appalachian trail in the 1970s .
as he hiked , he began noticing mushrooms and other wild edibles .
so , he decided to try foraging for mushrooms .
aita says mushroom foraging changed his relationship with the environment .
when hiking , he says , he would walk quickly and not see much of the plants and trees around him .
however , to find mushrooms , you must walk slowly .
um , by looking for mushrooms , you tend to slow up a little bit .
you get a chance to see the birds .
you get a chance to see the trees and shrubs , little animal life and everything .
so , it is necessary to pay close attention to the details on trees and on the ground .
but this presents its own problem .
mushroom foragers , with their heads turned downward , can easily get lost in the woods .
in the states , people have died after spending all night unprotected in the cold woods -- lost while hunting mushrooms .
should ai be used to catch shoplifters ?
new artificial intelligence software is being used in japan to monitor the body language of shoppers and look for signs that they are planning to shoplift .
the software , which is made by a tokyo startup called vaak , differs from similar products that work by matching faces to criminal records .
instead , vaakeye uses behavior to predict criminal action .
company founder ryo tanaka said his team fed the algorithm 100,000 hours worth of surveillance data to train it to monitor everything from the facial expressions of shoppers to their movements and clothing .
since vaakeye launched last month , it has been rolled out in 50 stores across japan .
vaak claims that shoplifting losses dropped by 77 percent during a test period in local convenience stores .
that could help reduce global retail costs from shoplifting , which hit $ 34 billion in 2017 according to the global shrink index .
using ai to catch thieves raises all kinds of ethical questions .
while the incentive is to prevent theft , is it legal or even moral to prevent someone from entering a store based on this software ? said euromonitor retail analyst michelle grant .
this should not be up to the software developer , says tanaka .
what we provide is the information of the suspicious , detected image .
we do n't decide who is criminal , the shop decides who 's criminal , he said .
the un secretary general made a commitment to leveraging resources to stop the ebola epidemic .
on may 8 , the un secretary-general antonio guterres said the un would throw its support to end the ebola epidemic in the democratic republic of the congo .
the un secretary-general also noted the full involvement of the local people in this fight against the epidemic , considering it as the key to get successful control of the epidemic .
in its tenth month , the ebola epidemic in the democratic republic of the congo has left more than 1,000 dead .
the outbreak of ebola is mainly in north kivu and the surrounding area of ituri .
it is considered as the world 's second-worst outbreak of ebola epidemic after the epidemic killing more than 11,300 people in west africa in 2014-2016 .
dandelions , one of the healthiest foods on the planet .
in many parts of the world , spring is in full bloom .
flowers of all colors and shapes can be seen in gardens , parks and other green spaces .
they make our world look and smell better .
so , it is no surprise that people love flowers ! well except for one .
dandelions ! there is probably no flower more hated , or misunderstood , than the bright yellow dandelion .
in the united states , they are considered weeds , the name for any unwanted plant .
in an effort to have the perfect green grass lawn , people try their best to kill all dandelions with chemical products .
or they dig them out at the roots - only to see them grow right back .
dandelions are hard to kill .
and that is a good thing because they are actually one of the most nutritious foods in the world .
that 's right , dandelion haters , the most hated flower on earth is one of the healthiest to eat !
manchester city braced for possible ban from $ 1.5 billion champions league .
investigators from european football 's governing body will meet thursday to decide whether manchester city will be banned from competing in the lucrative champions league , according to a member of the investigatory chamber .
the new york times reported monday that the newly crowned english premier league champion could be banned from europe 's most prestigious club tournament over allegations of unfair financial practices .
petros mavroidis , a member of uefa 's club financial control body investigatory chamber , told cnn sport he was surprised by the information contained in the report because no final decision had been taken .
the new york times had reported that investigators would recommend a season-long ban .
cnn contacted another member of the cfcb who declined to comment .
city will have the opportunity to appeal any potential punishment to the court of arbitration for sport ( cas ) in switzerland .
uefa told cnn that they do not comment on ongoing investigations regarding financial fair play matters .
manchester city strenuously denies any financial wrongdoing and has welcomed the uefa investigation , which is handled by the club financial control body investigatory chamber .
manchester city fc is fully cooperating in good faith with the cfcb ic 's ongoing investigation .
in doing so the club is reliant on both the cfcb ic 's independence and commitment to due process , the club statement read .
the new york times report citing people familiar with the case is therefore extremely concerning .
the implications are that either manchester city 's good faith in the cfcb ic is misplaced or the cfcb ic process is being misrepresented by individuals intent on damaging the club 's reputation and its commercial interests .
or both .
uefa has been investigating the club for possible breaches of its financial fair play ( ffp ) regulations since leaked files were reported by der spiegel .
french widow sues boeing for $ 276 million over ethiopian airlines crash .
a french widow has filed a lawsuit against us aircraft manufacturer boeing for $ 276 million in damages over the crash of an ethiopian airlines 737 max 8 in march , which killed all 157 people on board -- including her husband .
frenchwoman nadege dubois-seex , whose husband jonathan seex died in the accident , filed the suit against boeing in chicago , where the company is headquartered .
it is a tragedy which , by definition , could have been avoided , because it had already happened five months before .
how could they stay deaf to this warning ? dubois-seex told reporters in paris on tuesday , referring to another boeing 737 max 8 in indonesian company lion air 's fleet that crashed last october , leaving 189 people dead .
boeing admitted saturday that it had to correct flaws in the flight simulator software used to train pilots on the 737 max , following the two deadly crashes that killed a total of 346 people .
the aerospace company did not share when or how the flaws were discovered , however .
the admission of the simulator-software flaw comes amid intense scrutiny on boeing and the design of its 737 max .
the plane 's mcas software , which pushes the nose of the aircraft down if it senses an imminent stall , is believed to have played a role in crashes of lion air and ethiopian airlines jets .
boeing spokesman peter pedraza declined to comment on the lawsuit , but noted that the company was cooperating fully with investigations into the ethiopian airlines crash .
jonathan , who was a swedish and kenyan citizen , leaves behind three young children aged 7 to 10 .
the family 's lawyer nomaan husain said that the evidence clearly demonstrates that boeing acted recklessly and with conscious disregard to the safety of its passengers .
the chief of afp bureau chief was expelled from algeria .
on april 9th , the afp chief of france in algeria , namely aymeric vincenot , was expelled from this country , in wake of that algerian authorities had turned down to renew his press extension in 2019 .
having been in the position of the afp 's bureau chief in algiers since 2017 , mr. vincenot , who is 45 years old now , was departed algeria after his residency permit wasout of date and the final police deadline to leave had gone by .
algerian authorities did not give an official statement to afp for their decision as well as the reasons of vincenot 's deportation , but there was only a complaint to afp 's senior members in their visit to algeria in march .
responding to the above-mentioned move , afp chief executive fabrice fries judged the decision , taken under the presidency of bouteflika , was unacceptable for afp on account of that they could not currently appoint a successor in these circumstances .
the internet is approaching its thirtieth birthday , or thereabouts .
we 've come a long way since those early days of floppy discs and dial-up modems .
the internet is no different , as that issue seems to have also crossed over into the digital realm .
popular services like google , facebook , and twitter to name a few are directing much of our information consumption and data storage these days .
in the '90s there was a lot more peer-to-peer information sharing going on .
the dynamics have changed .
what was initially built as a decentralized scientific sharing network has more or less morphed into a giant marketing tool for a few big players .
blockchain internet advocates argue that much of the information we access or store on the modern internet is controlled by gatekeepers .
in some cases , their presence is subtle and in others rather dramatic .
either way , it 's somewhat questionable whether these keepers hold our best interests at heart .
the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers ( icann ) is a nonprofit organization based in california .
it was initially formed to help the us government manage the early infrastructure of the internet .
icann oversees the domain name system ( dns ) , which , in simple terms , translates the numbers identifying servers around the world into a more readable format .
while icann provides a much-needed service , it also suffers from the same problems as large tech giants like microsoft and ibm , centralization .
us policy heavily influences icann and , even though it does n't regulate web content , it can censor domain names .
the nonprofit has controversially maintained a six-year ban on .islam and .halal domain names .
this is despite advice otherwise from its own oversight committee .
for the most part , icann has promoted the free speech ideals of the internet since its inception in 1998 .
these recent events , however , call into question the real democratic future of dns on a global stage .
if that was troubling then we only need to look across the pacific to the heavy internet censorship found in much of asia .
in china , the government maintains strict controls over what content can be seen and who can be criticized .
internet communities aptly call it the great firewall of china .
as observed below , internet censorship mostly affects countries in the east , but even countries such as the uk and us , long held as pillars of freedom , are seeing increased issues with censorship .
government censorship .
worldwide sharing of information is a tricky business .
search engines have become a ubiquitous way for people everywhere to find their favorite content .
latest estimates show that google has captured 90 percent of the market share in this space .
while it clearly provides a valuable service , it also wields a lot of power .
though many of us do n't question this , a one search engine to rule them all approach is probably not the best way to serve impartial content .
the same can be said of social media .
it 's doubtful that mark zuckerberg knew the full impact of his platform when he began building it in 2005 .
even mr. zuckerberg would probably admit that his pet project has deviated from its initial intentions .
in facebook 's case , there 's the added element of identity management , since many websites use facebook profiling to identify their users .
what 's more , users face the very real possibility of losing valuable data .
though not recommended , many users post photos and create content on facebook that is n't backed up anywhere else .
by now , it should be clear that distributed systems have some real advantages .
tamas kocsis is the creator of zeronet , a peer-to-peer website hosting solution .
zeronet removes traditional centralized hosting servers by allowing users to host their websites on other users ' machines worldwide .
sounds great but what prevents others from vandalizing your site ? bitcoin cryptography of course !
as long as you hold on to your private keys , your website remains secure .
only you can add , edit , and update content in the usual way .
in addition , it 's also more robust .
graphite docs is a decentralized document authoring solution similar to google docs .
google ultimately uses every piece of data you input for marketing purposes , whether it 's through search , docs , or maps .
data breaches are common these days , and large storage companies are quickly losing credibility as a safe way to independently manage user data .
with graphite docs , the application distributes and secures your data with the same cryptography mentioned earlier .
only you , however , can access it .
you still retain full control over your data at all times , from anywhere you happen to be on the planet .
these are just some of the cases where decentralized cryptocurrency architecture is changing the nature of the internet .
if you 've used something like graphite docs or zeronet you will know that the process is still a bit technical and clumsy .
this speaks to the development of the industry as a whole right now .
just like the early days of the internet , the base layers of blockchain are currently being built out .
once developers iron out the kinks , we should see user interfaces appear that provide users with a more seamless interaction .
bitcoin scams and hơ to avoid them .
bitcoin has taken the world by storm , and since its introduction in 2008 , it has inevitably faced several controversies .
scammers found a gold mine in the digital currency for many reasons .
one of them is the fact that only a few people understand it , which makes it easier to make them believe false promises .
another reason is anonymity – cryptocurrency gives scammers relative ease to cover their tracks .
what are the most common bitcoin scams and how do you spot them ?
fake bitcoin exchanges .
one popular example for these would be south korea 's bitkrx , which posed to be a branch of the country 's korean exchange ( krx ) and claimed to be a platform to exchange and trade bitcoin .
ultimately , it turned out to be fraudulent .
there are also those that pretend to be connected with well-known exchanges using apps or fake websites .
users are scammed when they log in and their account details are given away .
when you are directed to a website , make sure that the url has https rather than just http .
without the letter s , it means that the web traffic has no security and encryption .
someone promises an incredible return of investment using bitcoin and a lot of people buy in it .
before you know it , someone runs off with all of your money .
that 's basically how ponzi schemes work .
at first , victims will be made to believe that it actually works – say , the digits in their bank account are increasing .
this will also make them talk about its success and convince others to join in .
eventually , calls to the customer service are unanswered , there are technical problems with the website , or the money will be remitted late – among several excuses while your money disappears for good .
if you see ads that sound like , double your bitcoin overnight , they 're probably scams .
how it usually works is you have to send them your money first before they can double it .
scammers use bitcoin as a product in pyramid scams .
in these schemes , your low initial investment will be multiplied if you invite more people to sign up .
after a lot of people have invested their money , the original scammer walks away with all the money .
hackers have long been using malware in order to get a hold of other people 's login credentials and account details .
now , it 's being used to drain bitcoin wallets that are connected to the internet .
how do you avoid falling into these scams ?
if the offer is too good to be true , stay away from it .
be vigilant on social media – legitimate bitcoin traders and brokers can be victims of poser accounts or impersonators .
never conduct financial transactions via direct messages on social media platforms .
do your homework and research on services you encounter and the best trading platforms .
verify their claims and check their legitimacy or whether they are a registered corporation or not .
the 7-year-old boy earns hundreds of billions thanks to youtube .
it 's the boy that earns $ 22 million ( over vnd 512 billion ) a year by reviewing toys on youtube and he became the world 's highest-paid star on youtube - a video sharing website when he was just a 7-year-old boy .
according to forbes , within 12 months ( until june this year ) , the ryan toysreview channel of ryan earned more $ 500.000 than jake paul actor 's channel did- the second highest paid one on youtuber .
the dude perfect channel came in third place generating $ 20 million .
video clips are posted almost every day and an advertisement clip which promotes a blue giant mystery egg with the appearance of ryan has attracted more than a million views since last weekend .
asked by nbc about the reason why many kids liked watching his videos , ryan who is now 8 years old said , because i 'm entertaining and i 'm funny .
since the ryan toysreview channel was launched by ryan 's parents in march 2015 , videos that he made have had 26 billion views and attracted up to 17.3 million subscribers .
bitcoin and cryptocurrency litigation .
bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are gaining more attention as days pass .
aside from the advantages that cryptocurrencies have like anonymity and easy international transactions , people are enticed by the fact that it can become a good investment .
apart from trading bitcoins for cash , you can also use bitcoins to buy gift cards , book flights , and hotels , buy furniture , or even buy real estate properties .
bitcoin purchases are not taxed at the moment since there is no way for third parties to identify , track , or intercept transactions that use bitcoins .
transaction fees are considerably lower as well compared to credit card transactions or services like paypal .
although there are many advantages in using bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies , just like any other investments , you should always be careful with your transactions .
since cryptocurrency is not regulated , many unscrupulous people have taken advantage of this and incidents of fraudulent cryptocurrencies , and other types of scam related to cryptocurrency have happened .
one example of this is prodeum , a cryptocurrency start-up that scammed its investors in just one weekend .
because of these scams , law firms have now been involved in helping the victims .
cryptocurrency litigation has now become something that some lawyers specialize in .
there are a lot of factors to consider when a cryptocurrency dispute arises .
aside from fraudulent initial coin offering ( ico ) , lawyers could get involved if the cryptocurrency was used to launder money or hide assets .
they could also get involved when there is an issue with the company , commercial , or intellectual property laws being violated in relation to cryptocurrency .
here are some things that you can do as a cryptocurrency user to avoid being scammed , .
research .
just like with any other investments that you will make , research is essential .
when investing in an ico , make sure to read and dissect their white papers to ensure that you 're working with reliable people .
take time to research the people behind the ico , their whole team , board members , and other investors .
it 's vital for you to learn as much as you can about the company before investing so that there will be no unpleasant surprises .
be vigilant .
cryptocurrency is still primarily bought and sold at exchanges .
because cryptocurrency is something new and the fuss around it is its value , many people get scammed by the promise of unrealistic prices .
if an exchange promises incredible discounts or offers that seem too good to be true , it probably is .
another thing that you can do to avoid bitcoin exchange scams is to check the exchange 's url .
if a website 's address starts with https instead of just http , that means that the traffic is encrypted and therefore has more protection .
only use trusted sources .
hardware wallet is a physical device that stores your private keys .
hardware wallets offer more protection from hacking since there is no way for hackers to access them when you 're not online .
however , hackers have now found a way around that .
some hackers sell hardware wallets that have a backdoor for them to access all your cryptocurrency and the best way to avoid this is only to accept hardware wallets from trusted sources .
united nations appeals for eliminating the violence against women and girls .
on november 19th , antonio guterres who is the secretary-general of united nations broke the news of a persuasive message to the entire the world , saying ending inequality means ending violence against women and girls .
the aim of the speech of the secretary-general of united nations guterres at the celebration of the international day for the elimination of violence against women is to assert that , at its core , violence against women and girls in all its forms is the manifestation of a profound lack of respect­ ­– a failure by men to recognize the inherent equality and dignity of women .
he also underlined was that the violence for women is the top-ranking reason of the loss and even a wide range of deaths of young women .
the international day for the elimination of violence against women is celebrated once a year by united nations on november 25th .
at this event this year , with the topic orange the world , hear me too , will start with a series of 16 days with a lot of active actions which are initiated by un with a goal to appeal everybody from a plenty of different fields for joining hands toget rid of the violence against women and girls .
ms. phumzile mlambo-ngcuka , executive director of the united nations women program , emphasized that un initiatives to change the lives of women are showing hope for more progress in gender equality .
south korean ico ban may be lifted in november .
seoul , south korea .
this morning at the 2018 korea blockchain expo , representative hye hoon lee , hinted at the south korean government changing its stance on icos .
mrs. lee is the nominee for chairwoman of the national assembly special committee for the 4th industrial revolution .
the special committee was formed to pay attention to ai , big data , cloud computing , iot , and other emerging technologies that are central to korea becoming more competitive at the national level .
she mentioned that the government is presently reviewing icos taking place abroad before making a final decision on south korean ico guidelines .
according to her presentation , the government ico study will conclude shortly and the government will most likely reverse its ban on icos in november .
she said that the lack of investor protection needed to be addressed and that the committee would , with the help of more knowledgeable leaders in industry and academic research , work with the government to develop guidelines that would regulate icos more like regular private businesses raising funds publicly .
she also stressed the need to punish violators .
during the presentation , she lauded the efforts of the us sec .
this may have caused other presenters , like simon kim , the ceo of hashed , asuccessful korean cryptocurrency fund , to express concern about the government introducing very detailed or innovation-stifling regulations .
mr. kim seemed to make an appeal for light-touch , innovative guidelines that would push korea to the forefront of cryptocurrency test markets .
other speakers indicated that any government guidelines on icos would be beneficial for the south korean economy .
al can help to look for people through a camera based on height , gender , and clothing .
a team of ai researchers from india have developed a tool that can help to search for people in surveillance cameras by height , clothing color , and gender .
what you need to do is to provide the ai system with the detail information of a person who you 're looking for and then it 'll give you some videos that respond to your request .
for instance , you make a request of finding women wearing a red t-shirt and being 153 tall , and the ai will give you all of the results including videos that feature people meeting your criteria .
based on this team , now it can only look for someone based on height , clothing color , and gender .
this technology is a very good idea in looking for a missing individual or tracking suspected criminals .
let 's take imagination about a situation that someone disappears for a couple of days .
it 's hard and time-consuming for humans , meanwhile , ai can completely solve it quickly .
the first successful genome editing experiment .
recently , american scientists have successfully tested the genetic selection technology on human embryos to edit disease-causing mutations for the first time , creating opportunities to prevent genetic diseases from passing to future generations .
this is considered one of the important milestones in genetic research published in the british prestigious journal nature .
the experiment was carried out by the experts from oregon health & science university ( ohsu ) in collaboration with salk institute and korea genetics institute .
the research team used crispr-cas9 as a method to edit the mutant genes that are responsible for a heart disease .
crispr-cas9 works as molecule-sized scissors that remove unwanted genes from the genome and replace with new healthy chains of dna .
that technology has also been tested several times in china , but the results have not been clear .
in spite of the failure to achieve complete success , that gives a hand to increase the number of embryos that can be edited from the level of 50 percent in nature to the level of 70 percent .
scientists are still cautious to give a warning that they need to do more tests to increase the level of success to 100 percent , and they ensure the safe levels before being able to bring the technology into reality tests .
we waste each year $ 500 billion on shopping and using fashion products each year .
waste has become the focus problem for the fashion industry in recent years while the information of the huge inventory of fashion companies has been continuously released .
especially , the big fashion brands like burberry destroyed unsold products .
the latest research of movinga tapped another aspect when focusing on the rate of consumers ' waste , in the context of the fact that the number of fashion items is produced , consumed and removed faster than ever .
the study was conducted with the primary purpose which is to remind consumers about the effectsof the habit and myths related to the consumption of fashion items on the global scope .
movinga aims to raise awareness and create positive changes in the community .
the research group conducted the survey with 18,000 households in 20 countries .
the research questions revolved around the percentage of outfits which have been not used in their lockers within 12 months .
after having completed the survey , movinga collated the results with data from the world bank and other research materials on this topic .
the results showed that the value of clothes is almost unused and recycled up to about $ 500 billion .
this is equivalent to an american citizen throwing nearly an average of 32 kilograms of clothing a year .
5.9 magnitude earthquake shook the puerto williams port of chile .
according to reporters of vietnam news agency in latin america , on october 29th , national seismic center ( csn ) in chile university said that an earthquake with 5.9 magnitude had shaken puerto williams port , which is 2400 kilometer away to the south from capital santiago .
according to csn , hypocenter of the earthquake was 305 kilometer away from puerto williams port and at the depth of 20 km .
the overall report of local government said that there are no considerable injuries or great damage to infrastructure , which was caused by the quake .
at dawn of the same day , an earthquake with 6.4 magnitude also shook puerto williams port but it caused no damage to people and infrastructure .
chile is located on the ring of fire pacific ocean , an area where earthquakes and volcanic eruptions usually happen .
in september , 2015 , in this south america country there was an earthquake with 8.3 magnitude together with tsunami which killed 15 people and took away houses of more than 16000 .
this had been the strongest earthquake in chile since the one with 8.8 magnitude in february , 2010 which caused tsunami and deaths of over 500 people .
north korea can use hot virtual wallets to circumvent us sanctions .
north korea can use virtual wallets to acquire us dollars .
north korea is a country that has been hit hard by us sanctions in recent years , as the international community , and specifically the united states government attempts to push its agenda about certain policies .
these are especially in regard to human rights violations , and the north korean regime 's intimidating nuclear program .
sanctions imposed on the north korean government by the united states prohibit any person or company from undertaking trade with the nation .
the export of goods and services to north korea as well as technology is also prohibited .
only select non-governmental organizations are allowed to provide some limited services , send resources and transfer humanitarian technology to the state .
and as us sanctions bite , the hermit nation is scurrying to find more ways to circumvent them , and apparently relying more on cryptocurrencies .
there have been reports of this happening before and now , according to an investigation carried out by lourdes miranda , an independent financial crimes analyst , and ross delston , an american attorney , the north korean government currently has advanced cryptocurrency resources to undermine the effectiveness of us sanctions .
by using major cryptocurrencies , the nation can pay for embargoed commodities from the outside world , including the united states .
lourdes and delston revealed this via a joint statement sent to the asian times .
according to the duo , the north korean situation is particularly unique because the government is willing to provide funding and get its hands dirty in finding ways to get around the sanctions .
the two outlined several ways through which pyongyang can achieve this through cryptocurrencies .
by launching its own range of cryptocurrencies and blockchain , for example , government actors can manipulate public ledger records and disguise the origin of coins , which is an important aspect of laundering crypto .
integrating this aspect into its schemes , the democratic people 's republic of korea ( dprk ) could use its own crypto hot wallets to transfer funds to the european market and finally into us .
exchanges to acquire us dollars .
alternatively , the regime could start by obscuring the origin of crypto coins using multiple cryptocurrency tumbler services .
they mix digital coins from clients with currency from a wide range of sources .
frequently shifting the coins and mixing them can break their linear pattern while maintaining the digital currency-type .
the complexities of undertaking this can differ significantly in relation to the circumstances .
dprk agents could then utilize russian platforms to open and fund virtual crypto wallets .
the wallets can be used to send coins to a bulgarian platform and from there , transferred to a service based in greece , for example .
at this stage , people who are able to provide qualifying personally identifiable information ( pii ) can be hired to hold the funds or transfer them freely within eu based networks .
the digital currency can then enter the united states market .
final steps would involve sending the coins to major cryptocurrency exchanges offering crypto for fiat services .
this is because most mixing services do n't provide this , due to financial market regulatory requirements imposed by governments , which most would not wish to adhere to .
acquiring fiat from major currency exchanges would enable the dprk to get its hands on badly needed international currencies , allowing it to continue participating in international commerce .
this would provide limited buoyancy to its flagging economy .
funding in crypto for top secret projects .
north korea , reportedly earns upwards of $ 100 million in fiat currency each year converting crypto into cash .
the east asian country has been observed to be taking part in numerous projects in countries such as india , the philippines , and malaysia .
as such , it must be getting funds for these projects in some way , since the country has been locked out of the swift international money transfer system .
the best guess so far has been payments using cryptocurrencies , mainly because the projects are also top-secret .
napping may improve learning , memory .
march 16 is international sleep day .
and we should all celebrate the act of sleeping .
studies have shown that a good night 's rest helps us stay healthy , both mentally and physically .
and researchers say sleep is probably the best tool we have for memory and learning .
michael twery is director of the national center on sleep disorders research at america 's national institutes of health .
twery is an expert on the science of sleep and sleep disorders .
he told me that a good night 's sleep helps to learn better .
getting a good night 's sleep is important for the learning and memory process .
it 's important because it stores the training exercises and the learning exercises into our more permanent memory while we 're sleeping 7-8 hours in bed .
and then the next morning when you wake up your mind is better prepared to act on that information .
but what about getting rest during the middle of the day ? short periods of sleep may help our brains work better , or so says a recent study on napping .
past studies have shown that napping can help babies and young children learn better .
and napping can help brain performance in older adults .
taking a nap may also help this group of people fights off age-related memory loss .
driverless robots for transporting food and more .
one of the latest trends in technology is the creation of personal robots to help people with day-to-day activities .
some companies are testing driverless robots to bring food and other products directly to customers .
one such service is already operating on the streets of washington , d.c .
starship technologies launched several self-driving robotic vehicles in the city earlier this year .
the six-wheeled electric machine sits about a half-meter high .
it has a box to carry small groceries or food products , up to nine kilograms in weight .
users can order the robot service through an app – a software program -- on a smartphone .
the food or other things remain safe and secure inside the vehicle until the consumer orders the app to open the compartment .
the robotic vehicles move themselves along sidewalks , using camera and tracking technology to avoid people , cars and other objects .
each robot has lights and a red flag on top to help people recognize them .
someone is always following the robots ' movements from a distance .
the company admits that someone might try to steal or block the robots .
but it adds that such an individual would be easy to catch because of the machine 's cameras and tracking system .
the creators of moby mart say they have invented the world 's first self-driving supermarket .
moby mart is about the size of a small bus .
it offers many products found in most convenience stores .
they include milk , lunch meats , fruits , and medicine .
the service has been tested in the city of shanghai in recent months .
designers say that when fully operational , moby mart will use electricity powered by the sun .
facebook now rates users on trustworthiness .
facebook is now rating users on how trustworthy they are in identifying and reporting real and false news .
the ratings system was first reported by the washington post .
a post reporter interviewed facebook product manager tessa lyons , who leads the company 's efforts to fight misinformation .
ms. lyons told the newspaper the system was developed and put into place over the past year .
in january , facebook announced a similar system to produce ratings for the trustworthiness of news sources .
at that time , facebook founder mark zuckerberg said those ratings would be based on information provided by facebook users .
zuckerberg said news sources receiving higher trustworthy ratings from the community would be prioritized in the social media service 's news feed .
the new ratings system is designed to predict how effective a user is at identifying and reporting false news stories .
every user is given a rating between zero and one , the post reports .
ms. lyons told the newspaper such a system is necessary because some users are incorrectly reporting whether a story is true or false .
it 's not uncommon for people to tell us something is false simply because they disagree with the premise of a story or they 're intentionally trying to target a particular publisher , lyons said .
young americans are less wealthy than their parents .
the cost of living in the united states is going up , notes writer alissa quart .
as reported in the new york post , quart points to the costs of housing , education , health care and child care in particular .
at the same time , a new study found that half of americans born in the 1980s are falling behind their parents economically .
the study is a project of researchers at stanford university , harvard university , and the university of california , berkeley .
their report is called the fading american dream .
together , these findings show that many younger adults are experiencing downward mobility .
in other words , they are not doing as well , either socially or economically , as their parents were at the same age .
the idea of downward mobility is especially troubling for americans , writes robert samuelson in the washington post .
he says most us citizens believe that , over time , the amount of money they earn will rise and life will get easier .
and for some , that belief has come true .
but among members of this generation , only about 60 percent of their children earned more money than they did .
and only 50 percent of children born in the following 10 years were earning more than their parents at the same age .
in other words , americans ' ease of living is going down .
in technical terms , the economists write , absolute mobility has fallen sharply over the past 50 years .
gmail allowed android users to'undo ' sent emails .
users using gmail app on android have permission to access a handy feature that allows users toundo sent emails .
however , users will only have 10 seconds to undo the sent message before the handy feature is gone and the email is sent .
when users are in the process of sending a message , they will see the notification at the bottom of the screen that says sending ..
in the left corner and cancel in the opposite corner .
when the message is sent to the receiver and the users realise that they sent a wrong email or sent it to the wrong mail address , they will have a few seconds to undo the action .
google has added the above mentioned useful feature in the latest gmail update for users around the world .
time , not material goods , 'raises happiness ' .
using money to free-up time is linked to increased happiness , a study says .
in an experiment , individuals reported greater happiness if they used £ 30 ( $ 40 ) to save time - such as by paying for chores to be done - rather than spending the money on material goods .
psychologists say stress over lack of time causes lower well-being and contributes to anxiety and insomnia .
yet , they say even the very wealthy are often reluctant to pay people to do the jobs they dislike .
in a series of surveys we find that people who spend money to buy themselves more free time are happier - that is they have higher life satisfaction , said dr elizabeth dunn , a psychologist professor at the university of british columbia , canada .
rising incomes in many countries has led to a new phenomenon .
from germany to the us , people report time famine , where they get stressed over the daily demands on their time .
psychologists in the us , canada and the netherlands set out to test whether money can increase happiness levels by freeing up time .
more than 6,000 adults in the us , canada , denmark , and the netherlands , including 800 millionaires , were asked questions about how much money they spent on buying time .
the researchers found that fewer than a third of individuals spent money to buy themselves time each month .
those who did reported greater life satisfaction than the others .
the researchers then devised a two-week experiment among 60 working adults in vancouver , canada .
on one weekend , participants were asked to spend £ 30 ( $ 40 ) on a purchase that would save them time .
they did things like buying lunches to be delivered to work , paying neighbourhood children to run errands for them , or paying for cleaning services .
on the other weekend , they were told to spend the windfall on material goods .
material purchases included wine , clothes , and books .
the research , published in the journal , proceedings of the national academy of sciences , found time saving compared with material purchases increased happiness by reducing feelings of time stress .
genes play a greater role in determining key personality traits like social skills and learning ability than the way we are brought up by our parents , researchers claimed .
the findings contradict the existing belief among psychologists that the environment we grow up in plays a larger role than genetics in shaping our personality .
researchers from edinburgh university studied more than 800 sets of identical and non-identical twins to learn whether genetics or upbringing has a greater effect on how successful people are in life .
twins are useful in such studies because almost all twins share the same home environment as each other , but only identical twins share exactly the same genetics .
participants were asked a series of questions about how they perceive themselves and others , such as are you influenced by people with strong opinions ?
by applying their answers to a well-established scale of psychological scale , researchers could assess and categorise different personality traits for each person .
writing in the journal of personality , the researchers found that identical twins were twice as likely as non-identical twins to share the same personality traits , suggesting that their dna was having the greatest impact .
genetics were most influential on people 's sense of self-control and also affected their social and learning abilities and their sense of purpose .
prof timothy bates , who led the study , said , previously , the role of family and the environment around the home often dominated people 's ideas about what affected psychological wellbeing .
however , this work highlights a much more powerful influence from genetics .
the study was focused on personality traits which contribute to our chances of success in life by dictating whether , for example , how determined we are to overcome challenges .
most americans believe their jobs are safe from the spread of automation and robotics , at least during their lifetimes , and only a handful says automation has cost them a job or loss of income .
still , a survey by the pew research center also found widespread anxiety about the general impact of technological change .
three-quarters of americans say it is at least somewhat realistic that robots and computers will eventually perform most of the jobs currently done by people .
roughly the same proportion worry that such an outcome will have negative consequences , such as worsening inequality .
the public expects a number of different jobs and occupations to be replaced by technology in the coming decades , but few think their own job is heading in that direction , aaron smith , associate director at the pew research center , said .
more than half of respondents expect that fast food workers , insurance claims processors and legal clerks will be mostly replaced by robots and computers during their lifetimes .
nearly two-thirds think that most retailers will be fully automated in 20 years , with little or no human interaction between customers and employers .
americans ' relative optimism about their own jobs might be the more accurate assessment .
many recent expert analyses are finding less dramatic impacts from automation than studies from several years ago that suggested up to half of jobs could be automated .
a report last week , issued by the education company pearson , oxford university , and the nesta foundation found that just one in five workers are in occupations that will shrink by 2030 .
camping is good for your brain .
on average , americans spend about 10 hours a day in front of a computer or other electronic device and less than 30 minutes a day outdoors .
that is a claim made by david strayer , a professor of psychology at the university of utah .
in his 2017 tedtalk , strayer explained that all this time spent with technology is making our brains tired .
using an electronic device – answering emails , listening to the news , looking at facebook -- puts a lot of pressure on the prefrontal cortex , the front of the brain .
this area , strayer explains , is important for critical thinking , problem-solving and decision-making .
so , it is important to give the brain a rest .
and being in nature , strayer claims , helps refresh a brain that is tired from too much technology .
that is when time in the great outdoors and a camping trip can help .
friends and family take time off and escape to nature for several days .
they take walks , climb , explore , swim , sleep , eat and play .
camping may be just what a tech-tired brain needs .
take carl , for example .
he lives in west virginia and enjoys camping .
he says that being outdoors makes him feel at ease .
it also prepares him for the work he must do .
camping gives us a chance to get in touch with nature and it 's a little less busy than our regular day-to-day life .
and it 's very relaxing .
so , when you return to work on monday generally you 're in a better state of mind ..
why going through security at airports could make you ill .
bug-laden planes are often blamed from making travellers ill , but a new study suggests that the germs may actually be closer to the ground .
tests on plastic luggage trays at airport security found that half were harbouring at least one respiratory disease such as the common cold or influenza .
the communal trays , which often contain shoes and belts which are touched frequently but rarely washed , as well as detritus from pockets such as used tissues , were found to have more germs than even toilet areas .
the study was carried out by a team of experts from the university of nottingham and the finnish national institute for health and welfare who swabbed a variety of surfaces at helsinki-vantaa airport in finland during the winter of 2016 to find out how pandemics might spread .
researchers say trays may be particularly bad for transferring disease because they are used by several hundred people a day , are non-porous which helps the viruses survive longer , and are 'typically seized with a wide palm surface area and strong grip . ' .
previous studies have found that one in five people become ill after flying and experts have advised that alcohol hand rub be made available before and after security .
professor of health protection , jonathan van tam , of nottingham university 's school of medicine , said , this study supports the case for improved public awareness of how viral infections spread .
people can help to minimise contagion by hygienic hand washing and coughing into a handkerchief , tissue or sleeve at all times but especially in public places .
walking high above on vietnam 's 'golden bridge ' .
in the mountains of central vietnam , two huge hands lift a golden walkway high above the mountaintops .
it is as if the ground below has taken a human form and grown arms .
i feel like i 'm walking on clouds , said vuong thuy linh , a visitor from hanoi .
it 's so unique .
many vietnamese and foreign tourists have been to cau vang , or the golden bridge in vietnam 's ba na hills , since it opened in june .
most seemed very excited to see and experience a structure known for its unusual design .
the walkway sits at over 1,000 meters above sea level and extends over the treetops from the edge of a leafy cliff .
it offers visitors a clear , unrestricted view of the beautiful countryside below .
the bridge was a project of ta landscape architecture of ho chi minh city .
it was designed to create the image of the giant hands of gods , pulling a strip of gold out of the land , said vu viet anh of ta landscape architecture .
it creates a walkway in the sky , among the foggy and fairy-like lands of ba na mountain , he told the reuters news agency .
anh noted that he had been surprised at the level of attention the company 's design had received , both locally and internationally .
nasa detects signs of ice on the moon .
on august 20 , nasa 's astronomers showed signs of ice and water on the moon 's surface .
this is a study of researchers at the university of hawaii and brown university in conjunction with nasa 's ames research center .
according to the announcement on august 20 , astronomers have found broken pieces of ice which scattered around the northern and southern poles of the moon .
many years ago , scientists thought that there was water on the moon , but there was no evidence before .
with the finding , scientists believe icebergs on the moon could provide a source of water for humans .
based on nasa 's latest data , the lowest temperature measured from the icebergs on the moon 's surface is -163oc and they are not affected by the sun 's intense heat .
a report by the national academy of science says that this is a remarkable milestone in mankind 's quest to explore the moon .
these icebergs seem to be a major resource that can assist the future expeditions .
the announcement was published in the national academy of science journal on august 20 .
smart classes , the education model for future .
by entering the code of class , students can access their personal accounts and study with their teacher via a digital textbook .
the textbook includes videos , sounds , images with the 360-degree view .
the prominent function of this solution is that teachers can compile and distribute directly the digital documents to the classrooms , can check the learning process of students at any time and answers of students are saved on the cloud so it is easy to see the results when they finish their tests .
for students , studying hours are always interesting .
to get used to the digital textbooks , students spend only two days because tablets are not unfamiliar to the students in cities .
how formula milk firms target mothers who can least afford it .
formula milk companies are continuing to use aggressive , clandestine and often illegal methods to target mothers in the poorest parts of the world to encourage them to choose powdered milk over breastfeeding , a new investigation shows .
save the children investigation in some of the most deprived areas of the philippines found that nestlé and three other companies were offering doctors , midwives , and local health workers free trips to lavish conferences , meals , tickets to shows and the cinema and even gambling chips , earning their loyalty .
this is a clear violation of philippine law .
here , they reportedly hand out infant nutrition pamphlets to mothers , which appear to be medical advice but in fact recommend specific formula brands and sometimes have money-off coupons .
hospital staff were also found to be recommending specific formula brands in lists of essential purchases handed to new mothers .
targeted advertising on facebook and partnerships with influential mummy bloggers means mothers are being exposed to more unregulated formula promotion than ever before .
at the same time , powerful lobby groups have been working to curtail government legislation regulating formula marketing and promotion , in the philippines and across the world .
all companies have rejected the allegations and denied any wrongdoing .
calling for conducting an investigation into the case of youtube engaging children in watching promotional videos .
on april 9th , the us consumer advocacy organizations called the federal trade commission ( ftc ) to investigate that youtube 's online video search service of google , allowed the promotion targeting at children , which is an act that is allegedly considered as a violation of the us law .
according to these organizations , youtube claims the site is only for users aged 13 or above , but in fact , it uses the personal information of children under 13 to deliver commercial ads to the children and help google earn huge profits .
these organizations signed and filed a lawsuit against google to the ftc , stating that google had collected personal information about adolescents on youtube including geolocation information , ios operating system 's unique device identifier ( udid ) that these children were using and these children 's mobile phone numbers to send them the clips of promotional videos on the internet .
according to josh golin of the campaign for commercial-free childhood , one of the groups that has filed a lawsuit against google over the years , google denied its responsibility for children and their families when it claimed that youtube was not for children under the age of 13 while it still published video ads to entice children .
too many lie-ins worse than too little sleep .
having regular lie-ins is worse for the body than getting too little sleep , new research suggests .
scientists have known for some time that not getting enough sleep increases the risk of a string of health complaints such as high blood pressure , heart disease , obesity , and diabetes .
but a new review led by keele university in staffordshire , england , found that people who slept for an average of 10 hours a night were 30pc more likely to die early than those who only slept for seven hours .
current recommendations suggest that adults should sleep for eight hours a night and although the precise benefits of sleep are still unknown , experts believe it gives the body a chance to repair cells and blood vessels , clear out waste and boost the immune system .
however , it was generally thought that too little sleep was far worse than too much .
but the new review of 74 studies involving three million people shows the opposite is true .
the research found that people with a sleep duration of 10 hours were 56pc more likely to suffer a stroke , at 49pc increased risk of dying from cardiovascular disease and a 44pc increase in coronary heart disease .
the results show that sleeping for longer than the recommended duration of seven or eight hours may be associated with a moderate degree of harm , compared to those who sleep for shorter durations .
it is unclear why oversleeping is bad for health .
some studies have suggested that it changes the production of brain chemicals such as serotonin or dopamine which can lead to depression .
albert einstein 's theory of happiness hit the record price .
two notes about the happy life of the genius albert einstein were bought for $ 1.56 million in an auction organized by the auctioneer winner 's , which by far exceeds the estimation by $ 5,000 $ 8,000 , and keeps the record price for a document auctioned in israel .
according to winner 's , despite meaningless scientific value , the two notes reflected the philosophy of life of the great german scientist .
the auction briefly took place in 20 minutes .
the new owners of these two notes is an european citizenship , however , the name is requested to keep confidential .
agreementabout fishing ban saves the north pole .
this agreement allows scientists to carry out researches on the ecosystems of the arctic ocean and the impacts of climate change on the area .
not only didthe agreement protecting an international sea area of 2.8 million km2come into force for countries which are contiguous with the north pole but it also for china , japan , koreawhich usually have fishing boats working in that area .
in the past , thick ice layers and difficulties in locating the herd of fish used to partly limit the number of ships coming into the central sea .
but there is a serious decline in the layers of ice in the arctic ocean , with the fact thatabout 40 percent of the central sea of the north pole becomes open sea , so ships can access more easily .
from the perspective of international law , all the nations can access this area .
therefore , if the agreement did n't exist , fishing in the central north pole wouldbe a mess despite its illegality .
with the above situation , scientists , groups for the environment as well as policy makers are afraid that the vulnerable ocean ecosystems can easily be affected here .
erotic virtual assistant vivi , designed to flirt with users , has been taken offline following criticism the avatar depicts women as sex objects .
who was vivi ?
vivi was initially marketed as a built-in ai girlfriend back in march .
then in october she was made to be a seductive secretary in an office .
before she was taken offline almost all the online reviews were positive .
the virtual assistant , named vivi could help users with certain tasks such as choosing a film or video game - but she could also flirt with users and could dance on request .
dressed in revealing clothing , the assistant was in beta testing for a virtual reality headset when she was pulled .
vivi could help users look at the company 's content based on previous videos they have watched .
she could also tell the time , the weather , the time of tv shows and complete missing parts of a poem .
users could touch vivi who would giggle , be playful or pretend to be angry .
shortly after , the company iqiyi , the streaming unit of baidu , issued a swift apology for concerns it might have raised .
the wall street journal contacted iqiyi to ask if the new avatar might encourage people to view women as sexual objects at work .
just hours later the company removed the avatar .
the earlier version of the product is a beta-testing version designed to gather users feedback , the company said in a statement .
iqiyi has noticed the issue raised by media and already taken the product offline for further modification .
we 'd like to make an apology for the concerns it might have raised .
the most important thing is she can perform sexy dances , with her enchanting figure , and only for you , one user wrote on chinese q & a website zhihu .
one image posted on gaming review website grapefruit games , shows the boss touching vivi 's breast .
the doll was released at a time when awareness about sexual misconduct in the workplace was widespread .
inappropriate sexual behaviour has been in the headlines following disclosures of high-profile business executives , media people and celebrities .
at the end of last month , today show host matt lauer was fired for what nbc called inappropriate sexual behavior .
world 's first ai-citizen sophia is calling for women 's rights in saudi arabia .
hanson robotics ' sophia is the world 's first ai-powered robot to have been granted citizenship .
now , sophia is fighting for women 's rights .
last month , sophia gained citizenship from the kingdom of saudi arabia .
the move was seen as ironic at best , as a place so known for restricting women 's rights would give more freedoms to a robot rather than its humans .
however , hanson robotics ceo david hanson is turning sophia 's headline-making citizenship into something a bit bigger .
sophia is now a women 's rights advocate .
sophia is a big advocate for women 's rights , for rights of all human beings , hanson robotics ceo david hanson said .
she has been reaching out about women 's rights in saudi arabia and about rights for all human beings and all living beings on this planet .
when sophia was initially granted her citizenship , women around the world immediately pointed out the disparity .
sophia , a robot , was granted citizenship in a country that , until september , banned women from driving a car .
are killer robots an imminent threat ?
we have something much bigger .
your kids probably have one of these , right ? not quite .
hell of the pilot ? no .
that skill is all ai .
it 's flying itself .
its processor can react 100 times faster than a human .
this is the new autonomous weapon that has just been presented by leading military equipment company .
the stochastic motion is an anti-sniper feature .
just like any mobile device these days , it has cameras and sensors .
and just like your phones and social media apps .
it does facial recognition .
inside here is 3 grams of shaped explosive .
this is how it works , did you see that ?
that little bang is enough to penetrate the skull and destroy the contents .
this is the power of a single unit but this weapon is designed for team deployment .
that is an air strike of surgical precision .
it 's one of a range of products .
trained as a team , they can penetrate buildings , cars , trains , evade people , bullets , pretty much any counter-measure .
they can not be stopped .
now i said this was big .
why ? because we are thinking big .
watch , a 25 million dollar order now buys this , enough to kill half a city .
the bad half .
nuclear is obsolete .
take out your entire enemy , virtually risk-free .
just characterize him , release the swarm and rest easy .
actually , these devices are not real yet .
this is a simulation of what they could do .
i can hear it .
i can hear it moving .
are you at the university ? oliver ? oliver ?
his short film is part of the campaign to stop production of autonomous weapons of killer robots before it 's too late .
this short film is more than just speculation .
it shows the result of interacting and miniaturizing technologies that we already have .
i 'm stewart russel , a professor of computer science at berkeley .
i 've worked in ai for more than 35 years .
it 's potential to benefits humanity is enormous , even in defense .
but allowing machines to choose to kill humans will be devastating to our security and freedom .
thousands of my fellow researchers agree .
we have an opportunity to prevent the future you just saw .
but the window to act is closing fast .
amper unveils the world 's first album composed and produced by an ai .
a new kind of composer .
the release of break free , the first song in a new album called i am ai of taryn southern on august 21 , 2017 is the collaboration between the pop singer and a series of machine learning apps , including amper .
taryn southern is the famous singer and digital storyteller in the music and entertainment industry .
her channel has reached more than 500 million views with 450 thousand subscribers on youtube .
amper , an ai music composer , producer , and performer , is created by a team of professional musicians and technology experts .
let 's enjoy break free in the video below .
for her forthcoming album later this year , taryn southern gave amper instructions , including the speed of the song , key signature tunes and preferred instruments , and ai then created a track based on these specifications .
according to drew silverstein , one of amper 's founders , amper was specificially designed to cooperate with actual musicians .
he hoped human were going to cooperate with ai to create the future of music .
ultimately , amper has achieved breakthrough in ai-composed music revolution .
it means that ai is really doing most of the legwork that human are taking over .
although iamai is the first album entirely composed and produced by an ai , it 's not the first time an ai has performed its creativity in arts .
southern 's album is going to be distributed online through stem platform which allows profits to be divided up among various creators .
in the near future , machines will not only write songs but also get paid from what they did .
a hanoi resident banned from flying for a year for lifejacket violation .
the 53-year-old woman is a resident of hanoi 's long bien district banned from flying for a year after she refused to pay fines for using a lifejacket on a domestic flight without permission .
her name has not been revealed .
according to the civil aviation administration of vietnam ( caav ) on saturday , the woman will not be allowed on domestic and international flights until july 3 next year .
also , she will be subject to strict security screening at airports for six months after the ban expires .
on a vietnam airlines flight from quy nhon town in central vietnam to hanoi on june 2 , the woman took out the lifejacket from under her seat and tore off its cover without permission or request from the cabin crew .
she was fined of vnd 2 million ( $ 87 ) for her violation by the northern airport authority .
however , the woman refused to pay it in spite of several reminders and warnings .
officials said lifejackets on aircraft can only be used on the advice of flight attendants in case an emergency landing on water is needed .
any act of removing a life jacket from the position without the flight attendant 's request is a serious violation of aviation safety .
nine more test positive for diphtheria .
previously , a four-year-old boy in gia lai who died of diphtheria .
nine of 24 people who 'd come into contact with him in gia lai have tested positive for the disease on sunday .
they are his parents and neighbors who are now being treated at the gia lai general hospital and children 's hospital .
these patients have shown symptoms of mild fever .
according to mai xuan hai , director of gia lai 's department of health , as many as 1,400 residents who belong to the ba na ethnic minority of bong hiot village in dak doa district have been placed under quarantine to prevent the spread of diphtheria .
the latest diphtheria outbreak struck the central highlands region more than a month ago .
it has claimed the lives of three children .
in the central highlands region , dak nong province has recorded vietnam 's highest to date with 16 cases of diphtheria in the latest outbreak while kon tum province has reported eight cases .
diphtheria is an infection caused by the corynebacterium diphtheria bacterium .
the disease spreads through air and direct contact .
nowadays , diphtheria is can be prevented with vaccination .
however , the vaccination rate for diphtheria in the central highlands region was just 48-50 percent , making the region susceptible to repeated outbreaks , the general department of preventive medicine under the health ministry said .
the symptoms of diphtheria include fever , sore throat , swallowing difficulty , and white patches in the throat that could block the airway .
complications include myocarditis , kidney problems , respiratory failure , inflammation of nerves , coma , and death .
vietnam welcomes the lowest number of international tourists in the year .
with preventive measures to fight the covid-19 infection still in force and its doors shut for foreign tourists , the number of international visitors to vietnam in june — mainly foreign experts and technical employees who are working on projects in the country—is 8,800 , the lowest in the past few years .
the number dropped over 61 percent month-on-month and a sharp 99 percent over the same period last year , according to the general statistics office .
as for the first half of this year , 3.7 million international tourists arrived in the country , down 55.8 percent against the same period last year .
vietnam welcomed 2.72 million asian tourists , which accounted for some 73 percent of the total but was still lower than the 2019 figure by some 58 percent .
vietnam 's tourist arrivals include china , south korea , and japan dropped 55 percent -63 percent , while the volume of cambodian tourists soared as high as 105.9 percent .
since the country has yet to resume international travel activities , the local tourism industry is still seeking ways to bounce back by exploiting the domestic segment and initially achieving positive results .
pentagon concerned about chinese military drills near paracels .
the us defense department has criticized china 's military exercises in the south china sea , calling it a violation of china 's commitments in maintaining stability in the region .
conducting military exercises over disputed territory in the south china sea is counterproductive to efforts at easing tensions and maintaining stability , the department said thursday .
china 's actions will further destabilize the situation in the south china sea , it said , adding that the exercises violate china 's commitments under the 2002 declaration on the conduct of parties in the south china sea to avoid activities that would complicate or escalate disputes and affect peace and stability .
pentagon urged china to reduce its militarization and coercion of its neighbors in the waters .
the maritime safety administration of china 's hainan province had announced plans to hold military exercises near vietnam 's paracel islands from july 1-5 .
vietnam 's foreign ministry spokeswoman le thi thu hang said thursday the country has sent a diplomatic note to protest the illegal exercises , urging non-repetition of the incident .
hang said the exercises violated vietnam 's sovereignty , complicating negotiations for a code of conduct of parties in the south china sea ( coc ) between china and asean , and affecting peace .
vietnam calls the waterway the east sea .
three banned from flying for altercations with cabin crew .
a woman and two men have been slapped with a one-year flight ban for assaulting flight attendants in two separate incidents .
the woman , 25 , from the northern province of thai nguyen , is banned from flying until july 3 next year and is also subject to strict security screening at airports for six months after her ban expires , the civil aviation administration of vietnam ( caav ) said .
it said she was using a phone on a vietjet flight from hanoi to ho chi minh on june 19 when it was preparing to take off .
the head of the cabin crew requested her to turn off the phone , but she did not comply and instead threw the device at the person .
the flight crew decided to return to the apron and ask noi bai airport security to deplane her and hand her over to the northern airport authority .
she was let off after paying a vnd 4 million ( $ 172 ) fine .
the two male passengers were similarly deplaned from a vietnam airlines flight leaving hanoi for hcmc on may 21 after getting into an altercation with a flight attendant and other passengers .
one of them , 46 , cursed , insulted , and threatened them .
he had been arguing with two other passengers after discovering their luggage was placed above his seat , and verbally assaulted a flight attendant who sought to mediate .
this delayed take-off by an hour and he was later deplaned .
another passenger , 49 , who supported the man 's abusive behavior , was also considered to have violated public order .
the northern airport authority fined the two a total of vnd 10 million ( $ 429 ) .
vietnamese lychees make it to singapore supermarket shelves .
vietnamese lychees , exported to japan for the first time last month , are now being sold by singapore 's largest retail chain , fairprice .
fairprice , which accounts for a 70 percent market share , is selling lychees sourced from the northern bac giang province for sgd5 ( $ 3.6 ) per kilogram , according to the vietnam trade office in that country .
fifty tons have been shipped so far , half of the volume contracted for export this year .
some outlets ran out of stock within two weeks , the trade office said .
vietnam has been working to export the fruit to singapore since 2018 , but in the last two years lychees were only sold in outdoor markets without proper preservation , causing them to rot quickly and discouraging importers .
in future supply could be a challenge .
singapore buys the same lychees that are grown for exporting to japan , and there would not be enough for it , and when the latter increases its demand .
vietnamese producers also need to improve packaging and preservation since there are many rotten fruits when shipments arrive in singapore , the trade office said , adding this could be a challenge in the future .
vietnam last month exported fresh lychees to japan after five years of negotiations and preparations to meet quality standards .
an estimated 200 tons will be shipped there this year .
bac giang , a lychee growing hub , is set to harvest 700 tons of lychees this year , and also eyes exports to the us and australia .
surveillance activities on vietnamese seas must have vietnam 's permission .
all surveillance activities on vietnamese seas need vietnam 's express permission , foreign ministry spokeswoman le thi thu hang asserted thursday .
she was responding to an inquiry regarding china 's survey vessel haiyang dizhi 4 entering vietnam 's exclusive economic zone ( eez ) last month .
all surveillance and scientific research activities on vietnamese sea areas in accordance with the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea ( unclos ) must be allowed by vietnam as stated by the convention .
she said , respecting the sovereignty , sovereignty rights and jurisdiction rights of countries and unclos regulations has important meaning for the maintenance of peace , stability , security , cooperation and development on the east sea , the region and the world .
the east sea is known internationally as the south china sea .
filipino news website benar news reported on june 16 , using two separate vessel-tracking tools , that china 's survey ship haiyang dizhi 4 entered vietnam 's eez from june 14-16 .
it was detected within 200 nautical miles off vietnam 's coast and roughly 182 nautical miles from vietnam 's phu quy island , the paper said .
in april , reuters also reported that chinese survey vessel haiyang dizhi 8 , used for offshore seismic surveys , had appeared at 158 km ( 98 miles ) off vietnam 's coast , within vietnam 's eez .
it was the same vessel that had violated vietnam 's eez and the continental shelf of vietnam near the vanguard bank , occupying the area for many weeks last year .
at the thursday press meet , hang also said vietnam has sent a diplomatic note to protest china 's performing military exercises near paracel islands this week .
vietnam has repeatedly condemned china 's illegal actions in the east sea , asserting it has full legal basis and historical evidence to affirm its sovereignty over the truong sa ( spratly ) and huong sa ( paracel ) islands in accordance with international law .
it has also stressed that all activities conducted by any party near either island without prior consent from vietnam hold no value .
government to sell its shares in vietnam 's largest brewer .
the government plans to sell its 36 percent stake in the country 's largest brewer , sabeco , this year .
the saigon beer alcohol beverage corp ( sabeco ) is one of 139 enterprises in a new list in which the government 's stakes will be sold by sovereign fund state capital investment corporation .
the ministry of industry and trade ( moit ) has been instructed to transfer the government 's stakes in these enterprises to the scic by august 31 .
the government had sold a 53.59 percent stake in sabeco to thaibev for over $ 5 billion in 2017 .
at the end of 2019 , the maker of saigon beer had assets estimated at vnd 26.96 trillion ( $ 1.2 billion ) and owner 's equity of vnd 20.07 trillion ( $ 870 million ) .
sabeco recently scaled down its revenue target for this year by 37 percent to vnd 23.8 trillion ( $ 1 billion ) and post-tax profit target by 39 percent to vnd 3.2 trillion ( $ 138 million ) , the lowest in six years .
wb offers aid for higher education , urban development in vietnam .
on june 30 , the world bank 's ( wb ) board of executive directors approved the financing of two projects —to help build a climate-resilient city in the mekong delta and improve the quality of vietnam 's three national universities—at us $ 422 million .
the vietnam university development project , financed through credit worth us $ 295 million , will improve teaching and research capacity at the vietnam national university-hanoi , the vietnam national university-hcmc and the university of danang , the wb said in a statement .
through investments in modern infrastructure , cutting-edge equipment and knowledge transfer , it will help transform the universities into regionally competitive institutions with advanced teaching and research capabilities .
meanwhile , the vinh long city urban development and enhanced climate resilience project in vinh long province , financed through credit worth us $ 127 million , will improve access to infrastructure and connectivity and reduce the risk of floods in vinh long city 's urban .
investing in human capital and urban development are among the top priorities of the world bank in vietnam , noted ousmane dione , the world bank country director for vietnam .
dione stressed that the two projects will help accelerate real progress in areas critical to sustainable growth in vietnam , skilled workers and more efficient and greener infrastructure .
the university development project aims to address certain key challenges faced by the higher education system .
with the new funding , university infrastructure , once overcrowded and obsolete , will be upgraded to become modern , integrated , green and digital ready .
the project , implemented in the three flagship universities , is also expected to enhance institutional capacity and to adopt new digital technology , in line with the national goals identified in the recently amended law on higher education and the upcoming 10-year higher education strategy .
the vinh long city development project will invest in resilient infrastructure and the improved disaster risk management of vinh long city – a secondary city strategically located along the economic corridor that connects ho chi minh city to the mekong delta .
the project will help improve access to basic services such as drainage , wastewater collection and treatment and other green infrastructure and reduce the flooding risk that 60 percent of the city 's population faces .
it will also develop three strategic roads that will serve as critical links in the city 's road network .
the credit for the two projects has been provided by the international development association .
picture of newborn clutching iud goes viral .
an image of a baby boy in northern hai phong city holding an intrauterine device has attracted astounding online attention .
the picture , taken by doctors at hai phong international hospital on tuesday , showed a newborn with his eyes closed , holding an intrauterine device ( iud ) .
upon its upload to the hospital 's own social network , the image received over 3,000 likes alongside more than 7,000 comments and shares .
when the boy was born , the device came out with him and he grabbed it , said tran viet phuong , head of the hospital 's second obstetrics department .
after delivery , i thought him holding the device was interesting , so i took a picture .
i never thought it would receive so much attention , phuong said .
doctors said his 34-year-old mother had given birth twice before .
two years prior , she inserted the intrauterine device into her uterus at a local hospital .
she later discovered that a five-week-old fetus had formed in her womb , at the location of the device .
she gave birth to the healthy baby boy , who weighs 3.2 kg , on tuesday morning .
both mother and child are being monitored at the hospital .
an intrauterine device works as a birth control implement by not allowing sperm to fertilize an egg .
but it does not have a 100 percent success rate , said phuong .
upon its insertion , the device might have been moved from its original position and thus was no longer effective , he added .
vietnam covid-19 vaccine to complete in , pharma firm .
vietnam 's trial covid-19 vaccine is expected to be ready in october next year after human trials , said the chairman of a state-owned pharmaceutical firm wednesday .
development of the vaccine has shown very positive progress , said do tuan dat , director of developer vaccine and biological production no 1 ( vabiotech ) .
last week , the treatment had proven highly immunogenic when tested on 50 mice based on analyses of their serum samples .
testing on mice is an important step in preparing vaccines for human trials , where researchers would be looking for an immune response after administration , dat said .
it would normally take three to five years to produce a good trial vaccine , and five to 10 years to complete .
but research and production of the covid-19 vaccine might be shortened .
maybe in another 9-12 months , there would be a vaccine qualified to be tested on humans .
to boost vaccine development , two vabiotech employees traveled to the u.k for research purposes from february to march .
their greatest challenge was to create the most stable antigens suitable to trigger an immune response in humans , dat said .
the exact time for vietnam 's covid-19 vaccine to go public has not been determined .
dat said the firm is trying to shorten research and production so the vaccine would be completed in october next year .
researchers are also working on the treatment so it could be immunogenic after two doses .
the potential vaccine was first tested on 50 mice in may , though the project had commenced in february .
success in producing antibody responses in mice has moved the project 's first phase forward by two months , said mac van trong , a member of the vabiotech research team .
the project was funded vnd 8 billion ( $ 345,216 ) , including sponsorship from conglomerate vingroup .
hundreds of covid-19 vaccine development projects are being carried out worldwide , with over a dozen vaccines being tested on humans .
vietnam has recorded 355 covid-19 infectionss so far , with 20 active cases left and no deaths .
no community transmission has been recorded in over two months .
vietnam to test covid-19 vaccine on humans .
the first human trial of a covid-19 vaccine produced by vabiotech company in vietnam is expected to begin in early 2021 , said do tuan dat , director of the company .
the hanoi city-based firm will test the vaccine on animals one more time in the next nine months before starting the first trial on humans , dat told tuoi tre newspaper .
the developers of the vabiotec vaccine in coordination with the uk 's bristol university had been conducting research to develop the covid-19 vaccine since february this year , after the national institute of hygiene and epidemiology managed to culture and isolate the novel coronavirus called sars-cov-2 .
the research on the vaccine was facilitated to prepare for the testing stage .
to date , two trials of the vaccine have been carried out on mice .
according to dang duc anh , head of nihe , the vaccine that was injected into four of the eight batches of mice in late april was evaluated to prove successful .
lifetime employment for public employees abolished from today .
the amended and supplemented law on cadres and civil servants and the revised law on public employees will take effect from today , july 1 , with the lifetime employment policy for state employees eliminated .
under the amended laws , public employees who were recruited today , july 1 , will sign labor contracts with a definite term instead of the previous indefinite one .
the term of labor contracts extends up to five years , up two years against the previous term , thanh nien newspaper reported .
besides this , in line with the amended laws , the signing of indefinite-term labor contracts will remain as is for those who were recruited prior to july 1 , 2020 , civil servants being moved to public employee positions and public employees who are working in extremely difficult socio-economic conditions .
as for public employees who were employed before july 1 but were yet to sign an indefinite-term contract , they are entitled to sign contracts with an indefinite term after finishing their contracts in line with the revised laws .
to guarantee the benefits of public employees signing definite-term labor contracts , the amended laws also regulate that leaders of state units or organizations must continue to sign or terminate a labor contract with employees 60 days prior to the expiration date of the contract .
south china sea not china 's maritime empire , us .
us secretary of state mike pompeo tweeted sunday that china can not be allowed to treat the south china sea as its maritime empire .
the united states welcomes asean leaders ' insistence that south china sea disputes be resolved in line with international law , including unclos .
china can not be allowed to treat the scs as its maritime empire .
we will have more to say on this topic soon , the tweet read .
the unclos refers to the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea .
the south china sea is known in vietnam as the east sea .
mr. pompeo also included a link to the asean leaders ' vision statement on a cohesive and responsive asean , rising above challenges and sustaining growth , which was passed by asean leaders at the 36th asean summit in hanoi on friday .
previously , on june 2 , pompeo had also tweeted a diplomatic note sent by us .
ambassador kelly craft to the u.n in response to the one sent by the permanent mission of china to the u.n on december 12 .
china was responding to malaysia 's submission to the commission on the limits of the continental shelf .
12 pakistani pilots fly for vietjet , jetstar pacific .
among the 27 pakistani pilots in vietnam who have been suspended over fake license concerns , 11 are working for local low-cost carrier vietjet and 1 for jetstar pacific .
the remaining pakistani pilots had their contracts expired or were furloughed and returned home amid the coronavirus outbreak .
the civil aviation authority of vietnam ( caav ) last night , june 28 , released information about the 27 pakistani pilots , after pakistan 's aviation minister ghulam sarwar khan revealed on june 24 that 262 pakistani pilots have fake licenses .
he said that these pilots did not take the exam themselves and paid someone else to sit it on their behalf .
specifically , vietnam earlier employed a total of 27 pakistani pilots that were granted flight permits by caav .
of them , six worked for national flag carrier vietnam airlines , 17 flying for vietjet , and four for jetstar .
due to the impact of covid-19 , only 12 pakistani pilots remain active in vietnam , said caav .
a vietjet representative on sunday afternoon affirmed that none of its pakistani pilots or those with licenses granted by pakistan are on duty .
vietjet is employing 823 pilots .
of them , 413 out of 431 captains are experienced pilots achieving over 5,000 flight hours each .
previously , bamboo airlways and the vietnam airlines group , including vietnam airlines , jetstar pacific , and vasco , asserted on the day that they are not employing pakistani pilots or those using pakistan-issued licenses .
specifically , vietnam airlines and vasco 's staff consists of 850 vietnamese pilots and 106 foreign pilots .
the percentage of local pilots account for almost 90 percent of the total .
as for jetstar pacific , its staff is comprised of 60 vietnamese pilots and 145 foreign pilots .
also , bamboo airways stated that it is currently not employing any pakistani pilots or those using licenses , certifications granted by the pakistani aviation authority .
most of the bamboo airways foreign pilots are chiefly from the uk , germany , france , the us , and brazil .
according to caav , the issuance of flight permits for the 27 pakistani pilots has complied with vietnam 's flight safety regulations and the convention on international civil aviation , also known as the chicago convention .
during the time working for vietnamese carriers , no pakistani pilots were associated with any flight incidents .
however , caav has requested all local airlines to temporarily suspend pakistani pilots until further notice .
vietnam rail operators plan to launch of freight trains to europe .
vietnam railways corporation plans to operate freight trains to china and onward to third countries such as russia and others in europe this year .
in its 2020 plans , the company seeks to step up the utilization of international freight transport with plans to ship fruits and aquaculture products directly from southern provinces to china using refrigerated containers .
the plan was mooted since the company 's revenues are expected to be severely impacted by a sharp decline in passenger numbers this year .
it plans to reduce the number of trains since demand is down due to the covid-19 pandemic but increases the number of halts by long-distance passenger trains and the number of north-south freight trains .
vietnam railways expects to suffer a net loss of vnd 1.39 trillion ( $ 60 million ) this year .
it said in 2016-19 its business had been hit by five factors , including fierce competition with low-cost airlines and high-speed expressway buses in terms of fares and quality of service and increasing costs of materials , water , and electricity .
it admitted its competitiveness is low , resulting in fewer opportunities for growth .
a lack of funding for upgrading infrastructure has also affected train services and business performance .
over the next five years it would study short and medium-distance options instead of long-distance routes and cut down on low-efficiency trains , it said .
depending on demand , it could start new services to smaller towns and collaborate with cities and provinces to transport foreign tourists .
british pilot could fly home next month .
vietnam 's most critically ill covid-19 patient , who has been hospitalized for more than three months in hcmc , could leave for scotland next month .
stephen cameron , the 43-year-old pilot who staged a remarkable recovery after being comatose for more than two months , could go home on a repatriation flight set to depart from hanoi on july 12 if he is well enough , deputy minister of health nguyen truong son said .
hopefully the patient can walk in the next 10 days and will be strong enough to fly home , son said monday .
when he leaves , a medical team will accompany him .
son said the u.k embassy has sent a document to the covid-19 treatment sub-committee under the ministry , suggesting that vietnamese experts and authorities assess whether patient 91 was healthy enough to return to his native scotland on a long flight .
the embassy 's proposal is for the british pilot to be taken on the july 12 vietnam airlines flight that is set to fly from hanoi to the u.k for bringing back stranded vietnamese citizens .
the british embassy has said the patient 's insurance company will cover all the costs for him to leave vietnam with the assistance of vietnamese health specialists .
local reports have said that leading vietnamese specialists will have to hold another national consultation to see if the british pilot , who was to work for the national flag carrier vietnam airlines , is healthy enough to be discharged from the hospital and endure a long flight back to the u.k .
cameron , known commonly as patient 91 , has been hospitalized since he was confirmed covid-19 positive on march 18 .
his fate has received unprecedented national and global attention as the strongest symbol of vietnam 's success in tackling the covid-19 pandemic .
a country of 96 million people that shares a long border with china , where the novel coronavirus is said to have originated , has recorded no covid-19 deaths thus far .
the patient is currently in good health and can eat without any medical intervention .
his limb muscle strength and respiratory functions have returned .
he can breathe , sit up , and walk a few steps on his own with the aid of a supporting frame .
the insurance company recently paid vnd 3.5 billion ( $ 151,000 ) for the patient 's medical bill at the ho chi minh city hospital for tropical diseases where he underwent treatment from march 18 to may 22 and was cured of covid-19 .
vietnam , which has recorded 355 covid-19 infections so far , has gone 72 days without community transmission of the virus .
noi bai , tsn runway upgrades set for july .
the civil aviation authority of vietnam has approved a plan to shut the runways and taxiways at hcmc 's tan son nhat airport and hanoi 's noi bai airport for repair and upgrade starting from july 1 , as part of a major project to rehabilitate and upgrade the runways and taxiways of the two international airports .
at tan son nhat airport , runway 25 r / 07l and taxiways e1 , ns1 , w4 and w6 will be closed from july 1 until the end of the year for maintenance .
during this period , aircraft will take off and land on runway 25 l / 07 r .
the hcmc-based airport was asked to team up with the relevant agencies to ensure safety and security and maintain operations at the airport during the execution of the project .
regarding noi bai airport , runways 11 l / 29r and 11 r / 29 l will be shut one at a time for the upgrade until the end of the year to avoid affecting operations at the airport .
to tu ha , deputy director of noi bai airport , said the flight frequency would drop as planes will take off and land on the same runway during the upgrade .
many flights scheduled for peak hours would be shifted to less busy hours , with the total number of daily flights at the hanoi-based airport remaining unchanged .
ha advised passengers to stay updated on the latest information regarding their flight status and come to the airport at least two hours ahead of departure .
the transport ministry said that starting work on the two projects in early july is essential since the flight frequency at the two airports is low as there are almost no international flights due to covid-19 .
when the pandemic is over , the demand for international travel will surge , making the closure of the runways more difficult .
since 2017 , the two airports have been suffering from overloading and receiving many more modern aircraft with a huge capacity .
as a result , their runways and taxiways have deteriorated .
aeon promotes vietnamese agricultural products .
the first batch of fresh vietnamese lychees exported to japan is being sold at 250 aeon general merchandise stores & supermarkets and aeon style stores across japan .
the fresh lychees were shipped by air from the end of may to the end of june without freezing to ensure the quality and taste of the product remain intact .
aeon 's customers in japan can enjoy the fruit during the right season at the freshest taste .
the covid-19 pandemic had a significant effect on imports and exports but aeon strived to promptly purchase and export of vietnamese lychees .
besides lychees , many other special vietnamese agricultural products such as mangoes , dragon fruits and coffee are being exported and sold across aeon 's supermarkets in japan since 2015 .
since december 2019 after the import restriction on vietnam 's fruits was lifted , the first batches of fresh vietnamese lychees have been exported to japan .
aeon is the first retailer to sell this fruit to japanese consumers .
the successful export and distribution of vietnamese agricultural products across aeon 's retail system in japan are the result of the efforts of companies under the aeon group in vietnam .
aeon has cooperated with the ministry of industry and trade to organize activities in support of vietnamese suppliers to improve the quality of domestic products exported to foreign markets , especially japan .
in 2017 , the total export turnover of vietnamese products through the aeon system reached some us $ 250 million , in 2018 , it reached us $ 330 million , in 2019 , us $ 370 million and in 2020 , it aims to reach us $ 450 million .
fresh outbreak of asf leaves over 5,800 pigs culled .
the recurrence of the african swine fever ( asf ) in many localities nationwide has led to the culling of 5,856 affected pigs as of june 28 , according to a department of animal health official .
the disease has been reported in 143 communes of 14 provinces , with one commune being newly hit , stated tran thi thu phuong , chief of the department 's division of international cooperation and communication .
to date , asf outbreaks have occurred in 255 communes of 20 provinces and cities across the country for less than 30 days .
in the northern province of lai chau , the highly contagious disease , which has spread to four of the seven communes and wards of lai chau city , led to 100 sick pigs being killed .
the province has taken drastic measures to fight asf , but it is at risk of facing a wider spread as the disease had earlier struck 93 of its 108 communes and wards , noted nguyen anh hung , head of the lai chau animal health division .
in cao bang , the asf recurrence had killed 600 pigs by june 24 , with 138 farming households in nine of the 10 districts and towns affected .
the scattered outbreaks have left this northern upland province struggling to curb the spread of the disease .
amid the fresh outbreak of the fatal disease , the department of animal health has urged localities to intensify measures to prevent and control its spread .
caav proposes reopening international air routes in late july .
in a report sent to the ministry of transport last weekend , the civil aviation authority of vietnam ( caav ) proposed restarting certain international commercial flights to transport passengers into vietnam in late july via the travel bubble or travel corridor models .
caav stressed that the model can be expanded to countries and territories that have gone 30 days without any community transmission of covid-19 .
under the travel bubble model , participating countries will allow the entry of their citizens and foreigners who are businesspeople , technical experts , students and others holding residence permits , according to caav .
arriving passengers will be mandatorily quarantined for 14 days .
however , the authority proposed not denying entry to tourists who meet the requirements of covid-19 infection prevention , vnexpress news site reported .
besides this , vietnam should not accept passengers who transit in other countries before entering vietnam .
as such , the passengers must have stayed in partner countries and territories for at least 30 consecutive days before flying to vietnam .
in addition , the passengers will be required to present negative covid-19 test results which need to be taken three days before boarding .
the passengers will also take a quick covid-19 test on arrival at local airports and airlines will cover the cost of the tests .
to make the plan a reality , the caav proposed that the ministry of transport report it to the prime minister and ask the ministry of foreign affairs to work with foreign affairs agencies to restart regular international flights .
mr. dinh viet thang , head of the caav , said that while some airlines in taiwan had proposed allowing them to reopen some air routes to vietnam , the local air carriers were prepared to resume international flights .
coach called up 28 players for sea games football .
coach park hang-seo has called up 28 players including some new faces for next year 's sea games to be hosted by vietnam .
the vietnam football federation ( vff ) announced the list on monday , and the team will gather on wednesday .
notably , there are no players from v.league champions hanoi fc since the capital-based club are facing an injury crisis and asked to retain their rising young players like bui hoang viet anh and le xuan tu until the v. league 1 ends .
some other clubs too do not want to release their players amid the v. league 1 schedule .
those called up include nguyen danh trung ( viettel fc ) , mai sy hoang , le thanh lam ( song lam nghe an ) and five players from hoang anh gia lai for the first time .
among the familiar faces is tran bao toan , who was selected by park for the final squad list of the u23 team in the afc u23 championship earlier this year , where vietnam was eliminated from the group stage .
becamex binh duong had three players selected .
hong linh ha tinh , the club with the youngest average age ( 24.4 ) , hcmc mc and than quang ninh each contributed two .
the team will have a short training camp from july 1 to 3 for park to evaluate their form .
china researchers discover new swine flu with 'pandemic potential ' .
( cnn ) chinese researchers have discovered a new type of swine flu that can infect humans and has the potential to cause a future pandemic , according to a study released on monday , though scientists have cautioned that the virus does not pose an immediate global health threat .
the disease , which researchers called the g4 virus , is genetically descended from the h1n1 swine flu that caused a pandemic in 2009 .
but dr. angela rasmussen , a virologist at columbia university 's public health school , warned the public not to freak out .
chinese researchers based at several institutions , including shandong agricultural university and the chinese national influenza center , discovered the g4 virus during a pig surveillance program .
from 2011 to 2018 , they collected more than 30,000 nasal swab samples from pigs in slaughterhouses and veterinary teaching hospitals across 10 chinese provinces .
from these samples , researchers identified 179 swine influenza viruses -- but not all of them posed a concern .
further tests showed that g4 can infect humans by binding to our cells and receptors , and it can replicate quickly inside our airway cells .
and though g4 holds h1n1 genes , people who have received seasonal flu vaccines wo n't have any immunity .
g4 already appears to have infected humans in china .
in hebei and shandong provinces , both places with high pig numbers , more than 10 percent of swine workers on pig farms and 4.4 percent of the general population tested positive in a survey from 2016 to 2018 .
there is no evidence yet that g4 could spread from person to person -- perhaps the most promising sign so far , said carl bergstrom , a professor of biology at the university of washington .
however , researchers warn in the paper that the virus was on the rise among pig populations , and could pose a serious threat to human health if not carefully monitored .
transmission of the virus from pig to human could lead to severe infection and even death , said the study , which called for greater control of the virus ' spread within pig populations .
india bans tiktok as tensions with china escalate .
while the indian government 's statement did not mention china by name , the ban comes as military tensions between the two countries continue to escalate following deadly border clashes earlier this month that left at least 20 indian soldiers dead .
many indians have called for a boycott of chinese goods and services , particularly from china 's dominant tech industry .
other popular chinese apps on the list include the video game clash of kings , messaging app wechat , social network weibo , and photo app camscanner .
tiktok , the hugely popular video platform owned by chinese tech giant bytedance , has an estimated 120 million users in india , making the country one of its biggest markets .
china dominates india 's massive internet market — the world 's second-largest , with close to 600 million users — both in hardware and software .
chinese companies such as xiaomi , oppo , vivo , and oneplus account for more than half of india 's smartphone market , according to industry figures , and chinese tech giants alibaba ( baba ) and tencent ( tcehy ) are major investors in some of the country 's most valuable startups .
nonetheless , the ban will be a blow to the chinese app industry that loses a strong , according to research firm canalys .
beijing approves experimental covid-19 vaccine for use in chinese military .
the chinese government has approved the use of an experimental covid-19 vaccine for the country 's military -- the latest step in a global race to stop the deadly disease caused by the novel coronavirus .
the vaccine , known as ad5-ncov , was jointly-developed by the beijing institute of biotechnology -- part of the chinese government 's academy of military medical sciences -- and vaccine company cansino biologics .
in a statement to the hong kong stock exchange on monday , cansino announced that china 's central military commission had given the vaccine a military specially-needed drug approval on june 25 .
the special permission will last for one year and will only apply to military personnel .
china has repeatedly insisted that its military has remained unaffected by the pandemic , with officials claiming that the people 's liberation army ( pla ) , has not recorded a single coronavirus case .
us observers , however , have cast doubt on the claims , noting that the pla is among the world 's largest standing armies , making it statistically unlikely that its personnel has not been exposed to the virus .
neither the chinese government nor cansino have said how broadly the vaccine will be distributed , which units were be selected or whether it will be mandatory or voluntary for personnel .
according to a cansino statement , clinical trials of the new vaccine have shown a good safety profile with initial results indicating that ad5-ncov had potential to prevent diseases caused by sars-cov-2 , the coronavirus strain that causes covid-19 .
cansino had previously announced in may that the canadian government was allowing human trials of the ad5-ncov vaccine .
this vaccine candidate holds great promise , iain stewart , president of the national research council of canada , said in a statement at the time .
uae and china launch phase 3 clinical trial in humans for covid-19 vaccine .
no vaccine has been approved yet for commercial release .
currently , at least 17 vaccines are in clinical evaluation around the world , according to the world health organization , eight of which are being developed in china .
according to the statement from cansino , the first and second phases of their ad5-ncov vaccine trials have already been completed .
a woman faces criminal charges after death of abandoned baby .
hanoi police on tuesday arrested a woman for abandoning her newborn boy , who later died .
pham thi thanh , 31 , is being investigated for murdering or abandoning a newborn child , police said , a day after her son , abandoned right after birth near a manhole in son tay town , died of septic shock following 21 days of intensive care at hanoi 's saint paul hospital .
she could receive a penalty of up to two years ' community service or between three months and two years ' imprisonment , according to vietnam 's penal code .
thanh told police she caught a bus from downtown hanoi to son tay on june 6 .
around 11 p.m .
the same day , she fell into labor , walked alone to a vegetable field next to a temple in thanh my commune , and gave birth to a boy .
she said she was unable to raise the child , so she abandoned the boy near a deserted manhole behind the temple .
two days later , local residents found the naked boy and took him to the saint paul hospital for emergency care .
doctors treated the baby with antibiotics , who responded well to treatment .
hospital subsequently named him nguyen van an , which means peace and safety , hoping he would soon recover .
however , his condition soon deteriorated due to a serious blood infection .
doctors worked closely with experts from the national pediatrics hospital , but were unable to save the child .
thanh told the police she had had sex with many men recently and did n't know who the boy 's father was .
nghe an battles massive forest fire .
the fire , which broke out friday night in the north-central province 's dien chau district , raged throughout saturday night , engulfing a large area of 30-year-old pine trees in dien loi commune .
strong winds made it difficult to approach the fire .
for safety reasons , authorities have instructed firefighting forces , including soldiers , police officers and locals , to retreat from big fire areas and focus on creating firebreaks to prevent the flames from reaching residential areas and new forest patches .
as of 8 a.m sunday , hundreds of personnel were still putting out small fires and being stationed in different locations to monitor the fire and prevent it from flaring up again .
while the district is yet to calculate the damage inflicted by the fire , around 200 ha of pine and acacia forest patches have been incinerated throughout over the last two days .
the blaze was sparked in a pine forest in yen thanh district 's son thanh commune .
high temperatures of up to 40 celsius degree , along with the foehn effect ( the warming and drying of air on the lee side of a mountain range ) , caused it to grow quickly , creating high columns of smoke and rendering firefighting efforts futile .
the flames then spread to dien chau district 's dien phu commune and nghi loc district 's nghi van commune .
central vietnam has been experiencing several heat waves over the past month .
the latest one began june 18 with the mercury soaring up to 41 celsius degree .
71 h'mong families bear quarantine rigors after diphtheria outbreak .
life has changed drastically for the community since their living area in dak nong province was declared a quarantine zone following the death of a nine-year-old girl earlier this month and a dozen others getting infected .
the quarantine zone , located in dak nong 's quang hoa commune , dak glong district , has two checkpoints , situated on both ends of a residential area where 71 families reside .
each checkpoint has two militia members and a police officer .
they rest and have their meals at the checkpoints or in the local cultural center .
all residents in the area belong to the h'mong ethnic minority , said hoang van hau , a militia member .
they typically go to work or farm dozens of kilometers away , he added .
now , anyone wanting to get out of the quarantine zone must have legitimate reasons and put it in writing .
an unpaved road in quang hoa commune wears a deserted look with no one venturing outdoors .
local residents here have been quarantined for a week or so .
diphtheria is a highly contagious bacterial infection that spreads through either the air or direct contact .
symptoms include fever , sore throat , swallowing difficulty , and the development of white patches in the throat , which could block the airway .
possible complications include myocarditis , kidney problems , respiratory failure , inflammation of nerves , coma , and death .
medical workers take samples from those who are suspected to have been in contact with infected cases .
as of sunday morning , medical workers in dak nong had taken 572 samples to be tested for diphtheria in total .
over 1,300 people are undergoing preventive treatment .
dak nong has so far recorded 12 diphtheria cases .
all outbreak areas , including krong no district 's dak sor commune and dak glong district 's dak r'mang commune and quang hoa commune , each one dozens of kilometers apart , have now been quarantined .
the diphtheria vaccination rate in dak nong is only around 52-65 percent , said dang thanh , director of the provincial center for disease control .
he said the h'mong community not being cooperative about vaccination .
the province vaccinated around 4,800 residents of quang hoa , aged 7-40 , against diphtheria and tetanus on saturday .
diphtheria vaccination is part of vietnam 's national immunization program but the regimen is not followed strictly in several areas for various reasons .
vietnam suspends 27 pakistani pilots for license verification .
the civil aviation authority of vietnam ( caav ) has suspended 27 pakistani pilots flying for vietnamese carriers to check their licenses ' authenticity , following the pakistani aviation authority 's investigation revealing that over 250 pakistani pilots have fake licenses .
the suspended pilots ' licenses were granted by the pakistani aviation authority .
caav is waiting for the final conclusion over the issue from the pakistani authority to take further steps , said caav head dinh viet thang .
aside from these pakistani pilots , there are no foreign pilots in vietnam having their licenses issued by the pakistani authority , the official confirmed .
to date , thousands of foreign pilots are flying for local airlines such as flag carrier vietnam airlines , jetstar pacific , vasco , vietjet air , bamboo airways , according to tuoi tre newspaper .
in 2011 , south korea 's aviation authority informed caav of a case in which kim tae hun , a south korean pilot that was working at vietnam airlines , was suspected to have used a fake license to fly an airbus a320 .
the suspension came after he made a failed landing attempt at a busan airport in south korea .
on noticing the problematic landing , the vietnamese captain immediately took over control of the plane from kim tae hun .
following a probe into his suspected fake license , caav confirmed that kim tae hun had used the fake license and other relevant documents issued by the indonesian aviation authority to fly airbus a320 aircraft .
after his fake license was detected , kim tae hun quit his job at vietnam airlines in august 2011 before caav completed the probe into his case .
justin bieber sued for $ 20 million against 2 women who accused him of sexual assault .
on june 25 , male singer justin bieber has just sued 2 women who accused him of sexual abuse .
the famous voice demanded that each person pay $ 10 million for defamation .
a few days ago , justin bieber was sexually assaulted by two women in 2014 and 2015 .
not only did he claim to be innocent and give concrete evidence , but the vocalist sorry decided to investigate the incident .
along with filing a lawsuit against the two victims above for fabricating insults to dignity and honor of the male singer .
tmz revealed that hailey baldwin 's husband requested compensation of up to 20 million usd , of which , each person had to pay 10 million usd .
in the lawsuit documents that the website mentioned above , the star claims that they have indisputable evidence proving the allegations are blatant lies .
justin bieber also suspected that the two accusers shook hands with him to smear the singer 's honor , not even excluding the possibility that the two twitter accounts accusing him of being led by one person behind him .
justin bieber decided to handle the incident until the end and did not hesitate to include his ex-girlfriend selena gomez in his explanations .
the first person to accuse the male singer born in 1994 of sexual assault was the owner of a twitter account named danielle .
this girl revealed that the 26-year-old singer attacked her while justin was in austin , texas ( usa ) .
the case took place at the four seasons hotel on march 9 2014 .
however , the 26-year-old singer later publicly responded that he was not at the above location during the incident but was with selena gomez and a few friends at the airbnb apartment .
the owner hit what do you mean ? accusing danielle of completely building the story based on articles revealing the singer had a meal at the four seasons restaurant on october 10 , 2014 .
not long after , another woman named kadi claimed to have been abused by justin bieber at the langham hotel in new york city ( usa ) at 2,30 am on may 5 , 2015 .
for this allegation , the canadian singer claimed that this girl was just one of the avid fans standing outside the hotel to meet the star .
justin bieber insists kadi has never met him .
the second reason for the victim specified date and time is because she knew that selena gomez 's former lover attended the met gala that year .
however , the document indicated that justin attended the event , then attended a private party until nearly 4 in the morning .
the singer claims to have enough visual evidence , witnesses to prove this and calls kadi 's accusation a utopian , poor , fabricated , and damaging story for his honor .
wb debars vietnamese firm for collusive and fraudulent practices .
hanoi attracts us $ 17.6 billion for 229 projects .
hanoi city is going to present investment certificates for 229 projects with a total value of us $ 17.6 billion and signed 38 memoranda of understanding worth a combined us $ 28.6 billion , according to the tuoi tre online website .
speaking at the hanoi 2020-investment and development cooperation conference held on june 27 , secretary of hanoi party committee vuong dinh hue said that the capital city contributes 16.7 percent of the country 's gross domestic product and some 19 percent of the state budget .
hue stated , the conference is an opportunity to bolster the relationship between local authorities , investors and businesses as well as units bringing foreign investors to the city and to vietnam .
it is being held after the covid-19 pandemic has effectively been controlled to reiterate that hanoi is a safe and attractive destination for investors .
through the event , hanoi is expressing its determination to take the lead in the post-covid-19 economic recovery and development .
it welcomed 1,850 delegates and leaders from 25 centrally-run cities and provinces , key economic zones in the north , ambassadors and representatives of diplomatic corps and others .
according to hanoi city 's chairman nguyen duc chung , the city has gone 72 days without new covid-19 infection cases in the community .
all social activities are also returning to normal .
despite the adverse impacts of the pandemic , hanoi reported a gross regional domestic product growth rate of 3.39 percent in the first six months of 2020 .
there were 12,650 new enterprises established , with total capital of vnd 175 trillion , up 9 percent over the same period last year .
during the january-june period , the city attracted us $ 4 billion in foreign direct investment capital .
besides , its tax collection met some 50 percent of this year 's estimate .
mr. chung also announced a portfolio of 282 projects that the city is seeking investors for with atotal value of vnd 483 trillion .
internet security firm bkav on june 23 warned the public about vn84app , spyware capable of penetrating into smartphones and stealing personal information , being spread via various fake websites of state agencies including the ministry of public security .
experts from bkav told tuoi tre online that in vietnam , as many as 300 users have fallen prey to the vn84app spyware in a short period of time .
hackers have tricked users into accessing the fake website of the ministry and downloading the vn84app as a file under the name .apk to their smartphones .
once successfully installed , the vn84app spyware collects messages , phone numbers and imei numbers and sends them to the hackers ' server .
during the spyware analysis , the experts discovered the server has a chinese interface and includes messages such as high-value bank transactions .
nguyen van cuong , head of an analysis team at bkav , admitted that vn84app is a dangerous spyware that is designed to secretly collect users ' messages including otp codes for bank transactions .
bkav is cooperating with the national cyber security center under the ministry of information and communications and the division of cyber security and high-tech crime prevention at the hanoi police to stop the spyware attack , cuong added .
returnee from cameroon becomes country 's 353rd covid-19 patient .
a 31-year-old man returning from cameroon tested positive for covid-19 today , june 26 , becoming the 353rd covid-19 patient in vietnam .
the patient , residing in thach that district , hanoi , traveled from cameroon through nigeria , ethiopia and malaysia before arriving in hcmc on june 24 .
he was taken to district 7 hospital for quarantine after arriving at the city 's tan son nhat international airport .
he is being treated at a field hospital in cu chi district , according to the ministry of health .
meanwhile , a patient was reported to have recovered from covid-19 today .
the 292nd patient was hospitalized on may 17 and has tested negative for covid-19 twice after over one month of treatment .
up to now , 330 covid-19 patients in vietnam have fully recovered .
among 23 active cases being treated at six medical centers , four patients have tested negative for covid-19 once and three others tested negative twice .
vietnam has reported no new covid-19 cases in the community for 71 consecutive days .
ethnic group stops banishing unmarried women to forest for childbirth .
the gie trieng ethnic group in quang nam province has called halt to a tradition that prohibited unmarried women from delivering at home .
ho thi thuy , 24 , of phuoc loc commune in the province 's phuoc son district met a man in 2018 and the two planned to get married .
but she became pregnant before the wedding could be held .
the gie trieng consider getting pregnant before marriage very unlucky and something that brings bad things to the villagers .
as was their custom , thuy was not allowed to deliver within the village .
women in such a situation had to go to the edge of the forest to have their baby .
but thuy went to the phuoc son district health center for the delivery .
she was discharged five days later , but her exile did not end there since she could not enter the village for 10 days .
her husband was waiting at the village entrance to welcome them and take them to the edge of the forest .
he had put up a small tent and a temporary bed made from wooden planks .
he helped out with the cooking and washed their clothes since no villager could get close to mother or child during the 10 days and until the family bought a pig weighing at least 10 kilograms and offered to the village as repentance .
i knew it was not good for me or my child and sanitation was not like at home , but i did not dare flout the village 's traditions , thuy recalls .
if a woman brings her child back home too soon and some disaster strikes the village or someone dies , the blame would fall on the newborn .
then the offering to the village as penitence had to be a buffalo and alcohol costing over vnd 30 million ( $ 1,300 ) to propitiate the gods .
it was better for me to endure the forest than to be punished .
we would not have been able to find the money to buy the buffalo .
phuoc loc is situated in the ngoc linh mountain range at an altitude of 1,000 meters above sea level .
the village has some 400 households of whom more than 40 percent are considered poor .
in the past they used to be scattered but now live in a residential area on a hill .
luu huyen thoai , chairman of phuoc loc commune , said over the last 10 years , local authorities and village elders have been trying to identify inappropriate customs and gradually eliminate them .
in 2015 the commune authorities launched a campaign to eliminate the tradition of women having to give birth at the edge of the forest .
but some cases have been reported in the last two years in hamlet 2 .
ho thi nhung , 53 years-old , who had delivered five babies at the edge of the forest , said , i had to prepare rice , clothes for the newborn and other things before every delivery and my husband would build a hut for me .
she returned home after one month each time .
in my generation , every gie trieng woman had to obey the custom .
many children died during delivery because of poor medical care .
she went to explain the rationale for the custom .
villagers consider a child born out of wedlock to be possessed by a ghost .
thus , when an unmarried mother gives birth at home , the spirit will haunt other villagers too .
whereas , if the delivery takes place in the forest , the ghost will not know the way to the village .
after local authorities launched several campaigns to raise awareness , in 2016 villagers agreed to abolish this custom , allowing gie trieng women to safely deliver at home without being punished by the village .
now a village health worker , nhung alerts local officials if she sees a woman head to the forest to give birth so that they could encourage her to go to the commune or district health center for the delivery .
drug industry sees spurt in hiring on covid-19 outbreak .
drug stores and pharmaceutical companies have been scrambling to hire workers as business booms amid the covid-19 pandemic .
in recent months most major drugstores have been hiring .
a recent report on hiring trends in the pharmaceutical and medical devices fields by recruitment firm navigos said 51 percent of employers are looking to recruit pharmacists .
the average salary for a pharmacist responsible for consulting and selling drugs at stores like an khang , long chau and pharmacity is vnd 5-8 million ( $ 214- $ 343 ) a month while drug companies pay vnd 10-15 million ( $ 428- $ 643 ) .
mid-level managers , pharmacists and marketing personnel get salaries of up to vnd 30 million ( $ 1,290 ) .
during disease outbreaks , many customers tend to also buy common drugs such as analgesics , antipyretics and cough medicines , fpt securities ( fpts ) said .
in february mekong capital-backed pharmacity pharmacy jsc , the largest drugstore chain in vietnam , raised vnd 735 billion ( $ 31.8 million ) in a series c funding round and plans to open 350 new stores this year , raising its total to 700 .
fpt retail , vietnam 's second largest electronics retailer , plans to open 50 more long chau drug stores this year to take the total number to 70 .
according to market research firm kantar vietnam worldpanel , drugstores ' revenues increased by 164-168 percent year-on-year in february .
the growth has been spurred by the growing economy , increasing health awareness among the public and positive changes in behaviors of using pharmaceutical products .
the value of the vietnamese pharmaceutical market is likely to grow to $ 7.7 billion by 2021 and $ 16.1 billion by 2026 from around $ 4.7 billion in 2017 , according to market research firm ibm research .
vietnam 's pharmaceutical sales were estimated at $ 6.5 billion in 2019 , according to securities firm viet dragon securities .
the ministry of health estimates there were around 57,000 drugstores last year , most of them small businesses run by families .
according to ims health , vietnam is among 17 countries in the so-called pharmerging markets , a group of countries that are expected to be the pillars of the global pharma industry .
its drug market is expected to grow at around 10 percent annually for the next five years .
cambodia bans import of six agricultural products from vietnam .
six vietnamese farm products including cabbages , broccoli , okra , pumpkins , limes and chives have been banned for import by cambodia after they were found containing pesticide residues that exceeded the permissible quantity .
cambodia 's authorities checked the quality of over 20 types of fruits and vegetables imported from vietnam , according to vo thi gai nho , deputy head of the customs agency at khanh binh border gate under the an giang department of customs .
the test results found harmful residues in six farm products .
so the cambodian general department of customs and agencies at chrey thom international border gate in kandal province imposed a ban on importing these agricultural products from vietnam .
the entire batch of the six types of vegetables was confiscated and destroyed .
between january and may , bilateral trade revenue between vietnam and cambodia reached us $ 1.2 billion , down 8.1 percent year-on-year .
vietnam exported goods worth us $ 1.7 billion to cambodia , inching down by 6 percent .
over the five-month period , vietnam 's exports of farm produce to the neighboring country skyrocketed by 312 percent year-on-year .
foxconn says vietnam is biggest manufacturing hub in southeast asia .
key apple supplier , taiwan 's foxconn , has said for the first time that vietnam is its largest manufacturing hub in southeast asia .
foxconn 's chairman , young liu , mentioning this at the company 's annual general meeting on tuesday , said taiwan , india and vietnam have been the locations where the world 's largest contract manufacturer has been expanding its operations in the last two years .
foxconn first came to vietnam in 2007 .
its three plants in the country manufacture and assemble computers , car parts , and other electronics .
experts say vietnam has become a promising manufacturing destination for multinationals post-pandemic thanks to its early and effective efforts to contain the novel coronavirus .
apple has started assembling its wireless earphone airpods pro in vietnam , while microsoft is scheduled to produce notebooks and desktop computers in the northern region from this quarter .
16 quarantined in saigon after student diagnosed with diphtheria .
a 20-year-old student in hcmc was diagnosed with diphtheria , prompting health authorities to isolate 16 people who had been in close contact with him .
lieutenant colonel phan ba hieu of the infectious diseases department at the 175 military hospital , where the unidentified patient is being treated , said on thursday he had been hospitalized nine days earlier with fever , a sore throat , and swelling in the jaw and neck .
he later tested positive for diphtheria .
the hospital quickly worked together with local authorities to isolate 16 people who had written exams along with him .
all tested negative for diphtheria but were given prophylactics .
the patient is now stable and no longer has fever or sore throat , hieu said .
hcmc is the second locality in vietnam to report a diphtheria outbreak this year after dak nong province in the central highlands , where 12 people were diagnosed with it this month .
a nine-year-old girl died and another patient is in critical condition .
diphtheria , which can be prevented with vaccination , is an infection caused by the corynebacterium diphtheria bacterium .
it spreads through air and direct contact .
symptoms include fever , sore throat , swallowing difficulty , and white patches in the throat that could block the airway .
complications include myocarditis , kidney problems , respiratory failure , inflammation of nerves , coma , and death .
us begins anti-subsidy probe into auto tires from vietnam .
the us department of commerce ( doc ) has initiated an anti-subsidy investigation into auto tires made in vietnam , according to the trade remedies authority of vietnam .
during the investigation , which is set to last 12 months , the doc can announce preliminary results and adopt temporary anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures .
on may 13 , the united states received a request to begin anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations into vietnam 's tire products .
data from the us customs agency indicated that in 2019 , vietnam exported tire products worth some us $ 525 million to the united states .
in july last year , the ministry of industry and trade issued a high-level warning that the tire products might be subject to trade defense investigations in some foreign countries .
after being notified of the investigation into vietnamese tires , the ministry immediately took action to support enterprises and exporters including discussing and consulting with relevant associations .
to ensure the effectiveness of the investigation , the ministry has encouraged local auto tire exporters to proactively cooperate with the united states side and provide them with sufficient information .
hcmc terminates three more subsidized bus routes .
lacking commuters , hcmc has decided to kill off three bus routes operating on subsidies starting next month .
starting july 1 , the three routes numbered 02 , 11 and 144 will be removed from the ho chi minh city bus map .
route 02 connects downtown ben thanh market with mien tay bus station from where passengers travel on to mekong delta , route 11 runs from ben thanh to dam sen , a theme park in district 11 , while route 144 links mien tay bus station with nhieu loc residential area in tan phu district .
the city 's public transport management center under the municipal department of transportation said it had failed to attract passengers and the revenue they generated had not been enough to cover expenses .
from late 2018 to date , the city has repeatedly stopped operations of its public buses following a lack of passengers .
it used to have 136 bus routes , and with the upcoming removal of three more routes , only 129 are left .
of the remaining , 91 are subsidized .
according to official data , an average 305 million passengers use public buses in hcmc a year back in 2012 .
for this year , the city had targeted to attract just 147 million .
in the 2014-2018 period , the number of bus passengers in the city had dropped steadily by 6.6 percent each year .
last year , the decreasing ratio was 13 percent against 2018 .
city officials said earlier that public buses are luring fewer passengers due to increasing competition from ride-hailing services .
quang nam quarantines 110 pregnant women returning from japan .
the central province of quang nam received and quarantined 345 vietnamese citizens who returned from japan , including 110 pregnant women and 14 children , nguyen van hai , director of the provincial health department , confirmed today , june 25 .
the 345 vietnamese nationals were quarantined at a police school in quang nam 's thang binh district .
they will undergo health checks and have their samples collected for covid-19 testing by the quang nam center for disease control and prevention , the health official said .
they are among the 360 passengers who were flown home from japan on national flag carrier vietnam airlines flight vn 931 that landed at danang airport on june 24 .
of them , three japanese experts were quarantined at a danang hotel , while 12 vietnamese nationals with health problems were transferred to local hospitals in danang for quarantine and treatment .
on may 29 , quang nam received and quarantined 343 vietnamese citizens stranded in taiwan , with 243 of them being pregnant women .
on june 5 , 212 vietnamese nationals including 99 pregnant women arrived home from japan and were isolated in the central province .
the head of the quang nam health department explained that there were many pregnant women returning home as vietnam prioritizes the repatriation of pregnant women , people with serious illnesses or suffering from occupational accidents , the elderly , and children .
hundreds of people in quang hoa commune quarantined over fears of diphtheria .
hundreds of residents in dak nong province 's quang hoa commune have been quarantined , after a girl from the commune died of diphtheria .
doctor ha van hung , deputy director of the dak nong department of health , told vnexpress on june 22 that 71 households with 355 people living in hamlet 6 in quang hoa commune have been quarantined , while the government of the commune has set up two quarantine teams and checkpoints .
some 550 people who are being quarantined and those who came into close contact with persons suspected of having diphtheria will get vaccines for four more days to wipe out the disease , hung said .
on june 19 , a nine-year-old girl residing in dak glong district 's quang hoa commune was sent to dak nong general hospital after presenting symptoms such as cough , sore throat and shortness of breath .
a day later , she reportedly died of diphtheria , which damaged her heart .
meanwhile , a nine-year-old boy identified as ma van thanh , who came into contact with the girl , was also hospitalized .
he is in the intensive care unit of the hospital .
after the two cases of diphtheria were detected , the provincial department of health asked the authorities to disinfect all the households in village 2 in hamlet 6 , be van dan primary school and the commune 's healthcare center , tuoi tre online reported .
in mid-june , four children aged nine to 15 years in krong no district 's dak sor commune tested positive for diphtheria .
these days , face-to-face communication is being replaced with online conversations using social media apps .
in terms of the advantages , social networking sites have made it much easier for us to keep in contact with our loved ones , regardless of geographic locations .
students studying abroad , for example , can keep in touch with their families and friends on a daily basis using the video call features of skype , facebook or various other apps .
social media is also a powerful tool in marketing and business .
the overuse of social media reduces the quality of interpersonal communication .
the frequent use of social media also affects the style of speaking and writing .
many teenagers have a habit of using abbreviated words , which are frequently used in text messages or in posts on social media , in their academic essays or formal emails .
many people are so addicted to social networking sites that they constantly stare at their screens during dinners with their families .
cars and motorbikes are banned from the old heart of hoi an , a pretty tourist town in central vietnam .
when the country 's newish prime minister paid a visit , he obligingly travelled on foot .
but as nguyen xuan phuc strode manfully around , his motorcade crept along behind him .
not many vietnamese can afford a fleet of blacked-out saloons .
but car-ownership in the communist country is soaring , bringing worries about pollution and congestion .
sales of cars , vans and lorries rose 55 percent by volume in 2015 , albeit from a low base .
so far this year they are up another third .
most went to hanoi and ho chi minh city , which between them house about half of vietnam 's urban population .
compared with its choked neighbours , vietnam 's big cities are relatively uncongested .
the country 's 40m or so motorbikes terrify pedestrians , but can thunder 10-abreast along thoroughfares as well as worm down dark alleyways .
cars , by contrast , block up the pipes .
only 9 percent of land in the heart of hanoi is given over to primary and secondary roads , compared with 32 percent in manhattan .
the world bank in 2011 calculated that if car-use were to reach even the moderate level seen in nearby malaysia , vietnam 's capital would grind to a complete halt .
the government is conflicted , says arve hansen , an academic .
it champions the local car-assembly industry but also slaps stiff taxes on buyers , in part for fear of jams .
a suite of recent trade deals will eventually limit authorities ' power to control car-use through tariffs .
a pact with south-east asian neighbours , which comes into full force in 2018 , could see cheap cars pour in from thailand .
the appeal of buying a car may grow even as vietnam 's roads clog up .
the growing risk of collision with a car is making motorcycling more dangerous .
motorists who know they will end up in jams prefer to do it in air-conditioned vehicles than perched on sweaty bike seats .
longer travel times are also putting vietnamese off buses , which were anyway hot and unreliable .
use of hanoi 's underfunded public buses has dropped 14 percent in a year .
new urban rail systems should help a little .
the first of at least six metro lines is under construction in ho chi minh city .
two elevated railways are being built in hanoi .
but it will take years to complete these networks , and the fast-growing cities they will serve are transforming as they are built .
hanoi in particular is sprawling , helped along by policies that encourage local authorities to build outward , rather than up .
city officials are making do .
bigwigs in ho chi minh city talk of narrowing pavements to widen roads .
hanoi insists more and better buses are revving up .
in june cadres in the capital said they thought improvements in public transport would eventually allow them to ban hanoi 's 5m motorbikes from the heart of the city .
it would be better to ban cars .
children growing up in costa rica are surrounded by some of the most beautiful and diverse landscapes in the world .
preserving tropical rainforests is n't costa rica 's only success , because the government also makes sure everyone has access to health-care and education .
so when the new economics foundation released its second happy planet index , costa rica came out number one .
the index is a ranking of countries based on their impact on the environment and the health and happiness of their citizens .
according to mariano rojas , a costa rican economics professor , costa rica is a mid-income country where citizens have plenty of time for themselves and for their relationships with others .
a mid-income level allows most citizens to satisfy their basic needs .
the government makes sure that all costa ricans have access to education , health and nutrition services .
costa ricans , he believes , are not interested in status or spending money to show how successful they are .
created in 2008 , the happy planet index examines happiness on a national level and ranks 143 countries according to three measurements .
their citizens ' happiness , how long they live ( which reflects their health ) , and how much of the planet 's resources each country consumes .
according to researcher saamah abdallah , the index also measures the outcomes that are most important , and those are happy , healthy lives for everyone .
psychologists are calling for the smacking of children in the family home to be outlawed due to the effect it can have on their mental health .
a motion has been put forward to the trades union congress ( tuc ) from the association of educational psychologists ( aep ) urging the government to acknowledge that physical punishment can have negative long-term effects on a child 's development .
parents and carers are currently legally allowed to smack children lightly if it can be described as a reasonable punishment , as outlined in section 58 of the children act 2004 .
however , psychologists who have backed the ban state that hitting is never an effective method of disciplining a child , no matter the circumstances .
corporal punishment became illegal in british state schools in 1986 , but remained legal in private schools until 1998 in england and wales , until 2000 in scotland and until 2003 in northern ireland .
john drewicz , president of the aep , is due to speak today at the annual tuc conference in manchester .
he 'll outline how smacking impacts a child 's mental health and perpetuates damaging messages about violence .
his speech will discuss how smacking a child can negatively impact their mental health and can encourage them to behave in a more aggressive and violent manner .
furthermore , he 'll reference several countries where a full ban on smacking children is already in place , including sweden , ireland , spain , germany and portugal .
the motion being put forward by the aep references similar initiatives in scotland and wales .
earlier this year , it was announced that the welsh government was proposing to ban smacking children by asking the country 's population for its views on the issue .
children 's charity save the children states that all children have a right to protection from violence , exploitation , abuse and neglect , and describes the act of smacking a child as a form of child abuse .
uk households spending more than income for first time in 30 years .
the data confirms that british households have been collectively supporting their spending through a combination of reducing their saving levels and taking on more debt .
uk households collectively spent more than they earned in 2017 – the first time this has happened in almost 30 years , according to the office for national statistics .
the data confirms what other indicators have been signalling for some time .
that british households have been supporting their spending through a combination of reducing saving levels and taking on more debt , with potentially hazardous consequences for the wider economy .
on thursday the ons presented figures , taken from last month 's sectoral accounts , showing that the net lending of the household sector in 2017 was minus £ 22,6 bn .
the last time this measure was negative was 1988 , when there was a deficit of £ 394 m .
the uk household saving ratio , which measures total saving as a share of total disposable income , dipped to a record low of 3 per cent last year and stood at only 4.3 percent in the first quarter of 2018 .
the difference between the saving ratio and net lending is that that the latter includes households ' investments in home improvement .
once expenditure , such as the building of loft extensions is included , households , collectively , are spending more than they are taking in after paying tax .
the aggregate uk household debt-to-gdp ratio ( excluding student loans ) soared in the years preceding the global financial crisis , shooting up from around 95 per cent in 2000 to a peak of 144 per cent in 2008 .
this was one of the most rapid household leverage buildups in the world and economists argue that it was one of the reasons britain suffered such a severe recession a decade ago , as households stopped spending in order to repair their finances , suddenly sucking demand out of the economy .
the debt-to-gdp ratio fell steadily to 121 per cent in 2015 , as households steadily reduced their leverage , but it has been creeping up over the past three years and now stands back at 125 per cent .
this debt is mainly made up of mortgage debt , reflecting high and rising uk house prices .
but unsecured consumer credit borrowing – things like car loans and credit cards – has been growing rapidly since 2015 , outstripping income growth and prompting warnings to private banks from the bank of england about their underwriting standards .
however , the bank has also noted that the debt-service burdens on households seem manageable by historic standards , reflecting the environment of still very low interest rates .
no job , no money .
life in vietnam for immigrants deported by us .
it was n't until pham chi cuong saw the plane waiting to deport him from the united states that it sunk in that he was about to be sent back to vietnam , the country he fled in 1990 .
cuong and at least three other deportees who had lived in america for decades were returned to vietnam in december 2017 as part of a renewed trump administration push to deport immigrants convicted of crimes in the united states .
the expulsions were carried out despite a 2008 bilateral agreement that vietnamese immigrants who arrived in the united states prior to 1995 , many of whom had supported the now defunct us backed state of south vietnam , would not be sent back .
cuong and the other men , who spoke to reuters this week in ho chi minh city , said they spent the 17-hour flight in enforced silence , their hands and legs in restraints .
adjusting to life in vietnam , the men all said , has been difficult .
they said they were viewed with suspicion by vietnamese officials and have had trouble finding work .
if you ask me do you want to come back to the us ?
i 'll give you the answer yes , but i do n't know how , said cuong , who left a wife and children back home in orlando , florida .
another of the men , who asked to be identified only by his last name of nguyen , told reuters he was asked by local police officials when he returned to vietnam if he worked for the cia .
he said he was deported to cam ranh bay , a place he had fled after the war because of his family 's connections to the losing side .
i ran away from there , said nguyen .
there were a lot of americans there at the time , and my family worked for them , he added .
my uncle died in the war .
he was a south vietnamese soldier .
vietnam has expressed reluctance to take back pre-1995 immigrants .
the white house has declined to comment on the vietnamese deportations .
the happiest country in the world .
children growing up in costa rica are surrounded by some of the most beautiful and diverse landscapes in the world .
preserving tropical rainforests is n't costa rica 's only success , because the government also makes sure everyone has access to health-care and education .
so when the new economics foundation released its second happy planet index , costa rica came out number one .
the index is a ranking of countries based on their impact on the environment and the health and happiness of their citizens .
according to mariano rojas , a costa rican economics professor , costa rica is a mid-income country where citizens have plenty of time for themselves and for their relationships with others .
a mid-income level allows most citizens to satisfy their basic needs .
the government makes sure that all costa ricans have access to education , health and nutrition services .
costa ricans , he believes , are not interested in status or spending money to show how successful they are .
created in 2008 , the happy planet index examines happiness on a national level and ranks 143 countries according to three measurements .
their citizens happiness , how long they live ( which reflects their health ) , and how much of the planet 's resources each country consumes .
according to researcher saamah abdallah , the index also measures the outcomes that are most important , and those are happy , healthy lives for everyone .
amidst all the happy hustle and bustle associated with the approach of tết ( lunar new year ) , this topic is being revisited this year on social media with surprising fervour .
if memory serves me right , the topic was first raised more than 10 years ago by a famous professor who controversially suggested that the lunar new year celebration be done away with , and viet nam as a nation shifts to celebrating the solar new year , based on the gregorian calendar .
the professor 's argument went thus .
it wasted time that students should spend studying .
the celebration promoted social evils like gambling and drinking .
there were more traffic accidents , and working days were wasted .
many people applauded this suggestion , including economists and other experts .
they argued that having two different holidays for the solar and lunar new years affected businesses and production .
this year , the argument has gained some added traction , with people saying greater international integration , an avowed national target , was a reason to celebrate just one new year .
japan is pointed to as an example , with some even going to the extent of saying celebrating the new year like westerners was one of the factors in the east asian giant 's many economic achievements , including becoming the third largest economy in the world .
other reasons have weighed in against the festival , too .
some people said it stressed them out .
they were tired of shopping before the holiday , and then cooking and visiting relatives during the holiday .
actually , i am afraid of tết now .
the traditional part of it has been gradually vanishing , said nguyen hai huyen , from ha noi .
it was no longer a big family affair with people getting together to make things , she said .
every year , i am exhausted preparing for tết ( on my own ) , and the enjoyment is missing , really , she said .
utter nonsense .
predictably , the other side is outraged .
i 've seen this nonsensical debate going on these days over whether we should abolish the traditional tet festival , said tô quyên , a vietnamese woman living in the united kingdom .
i say nonsensical because this should not be an issue at all .
if you are vietnamese , you celebrate tết .
this can not change .
she has a point , i would say .
there can be no argument that tet is the biggest and perhaps the oldest festival in việt nam , bringing people together to celebrate a sacred , meaningful annual event .
it is an occasion when members of a family , no matter where they are and what they do to earn a living , get together and pray in front of the ancestral altar .
returning home to celebrate tet is de rigueur for just about every vietnamese citizen , whether they are away from home within the country or abroad .
in fact , the festival draws thousands of foreign visitors looking to get an authentic feel for the country .
dương trung quốc , a historian , says that like other countries in asia , vietnamese people are original rice farmers , and their lives are connected closely with lunar calendar .
all the important events of a vietnamese person 's life , the one-month old celebration , weddings , funerals , and death commemorations are based on lunar calendar , he said .
this has been happening for thousands of years .
why should we change now ?
are we to dismiss and undermine our own culture and identity for the sake of economic efficiency ?
i would say that this economic efficiency is even more of an abstract idea than a cultural festival that is linked to actual , daily life events like harvests , change of seasons , traditional festival food .
the list goes on and on .
so let us take the learned professor 's contention that the long celebration of tet is one of the reasons việt nam is less developed and lags behind other countries .
what about singapore , south korea and thailand .
we all know people from other countries flock to thailand for the kingdom 's own new year celebrations .
and what of india ?
its citizens probably celebrate a dozen different new years , which are local holidays .
all that cultural diversity should be destroyed to honour commercial gods ?
i am reminded of the story where a development worker approaches a poor man sitting and relaxing under a tree at the beach .
the expert advises the man to work hard and make progress .
for what ?
so that he can sit and relax at the beach .
if we work harder ( as if we do n't do that now ) and do not celebrate tết , what will we do with the added prosperity ?
celebrate tết .
and there is evidence aplenty that honouring the commercial god will rob the soul of a nation and its people .
let 's get this clear , once and for all .
tet marks our culture and our identity , and it represents our nation 's soul .
why france is banning smartphones at school just as the us is letting more students use them .
french lawmakers have voted to ban smartphones in schools , affecting kids up to the age of 14 or 15 , as of the start of the new academic year in september .
smartphones have already been banned in the classrooms of french primary and middle schools since the start of the decade , but they were allowed on other parts of school grounds .
now , they 're banned across school premises , although secondary schools can still make exceptions for extracurricular activities or for disabled students .
when he floated the idea of the new ban last december , education minister jean-michel blanquer complained that these days the children do n't play at break time anymore .
they are just all in front of their smartphones , and from an educational point of view , that 's a problem .
blanquer had previously suggested that pupils should leave their phones in secure boxes when they arrive at school , but critics pointed out the logistical issues of such a scheme .
now , pupils will have to either leave their devices at home or turn them off while at school .
such measures are not uncommon in europe , and there is often backing from teachers and students alike .
a third of british schools ban smartphones in the classroom , and most swedish schools impose similar prohibitions .
on the other hand , italy reversed a classroom smartphone ban a couple years ago and is trying to encourage the use of the devices as learning aids .
the bans are also falling away in the us - a survey earlier this year found that , while over 90 percent of public schools imposed them in 2009 through 2010 , the proportion had dropped to 66 percent in 2015 through 2016 .
this seems to be a result of parents wanting to be able to contact their kids at all times , in an era where school shootings are common .
a 2012 survey of more than 5,400 middle and high school students found that 19 percent consumed one or more cups of coffee each day , with more than half saying they drank some form of caffeinated drink to wake up , despite being aware of the harms of consuming too much caffeine .
the study stated that middle and high school students are aware of the dangers of caffeine but are still in the reality where they must consume it .
this shows that educating the students on the dangers of caffeine abuse alone can not prevent them from harming themselves .
the findings were supported by lawmaker kim sang-hee of the minjoo party , who since proposed the bill to ban the sale of caffeine , which has now been made law and will come into effect on september 14 .
however , critics note that students can easily walk a few minutes from their schools to buy coffee or other caffeinated drinks .
according to the american academy of pediatrics , caffeine has been linked to some harmful health effects in children , including on the developing neurologic and cardiovascular systems .
they add that , in general , children should avoid caffeine-containing beverages , including soda .
green wave washes over mainstream shopping .
research in britain has shown that green consumers continue to flourish as a significant group amongst shoppers .
this suggests that politicians who claim environmentalism is yesterday 's issue may be seriously misjudging the public mood .
a report from mintel , the market research organisation , says that despite recession and financial pressures , more people than ever want to buy environmentally friendly products and a 'green wave ' has swept through consumerism , taking in people previously untouched by environmental concerns .
the recently published report also predicts that the process will repeat itself with ethical concerns , involving issues such as fair trade with the third world and the social record of businesses .
companies will have to be more honest and open in response to this mood .
mintel 's survey , based on nearly 1,000 consumers , found that the proportion who look for green products and are prepared to pay more for them has climbed from 53 per cent in 1990 to around 60 per cent in 1994 .
on average , they will pay 13 per cent more for such products , although this percentage is higher among women , managerial and professional groups and those aged 35 to 44 .
between 1990 and 1994 the proportion of consumers claiming to be unaware of or unconcerned about green issues fell from 18 to 10 per cent but the number of green spenders among older people and manual workers has risen substantially .
regions such as scotland have also caught up with the south of england in their environmental concerns .
according to mintel , the image of green consumerism as associated in the past with the more eccentric members of society has virtually disappeared .
the consumer research manager for mintel , angela hughes , said it had become firmly established as a mainstream market .
she explained that as far as the average person is concerned environmentalism has not gone off the boil .
in fact , it has spread across a much wider range of consumer groups , ages and occupations .
mintel 's 1994 survey found that 13 per cent of consumers are very dark green , nearly always buying environmentally friendly products , 28 per cent are 'dark green ' , trying 'as far as possible to buy such products , and 21 per cent are pale green - tending to buy green products if they see them .
another 26 per cent are armchair greens .
they said they care about environmental issues but their concern does not affect their spending habits .
only 10 per cent say they do not care about green issues .
four in ten people are ethical spenders , buying goods which do not , for example , involve dealings with oppressive regimes .
this figure is the same as in 1990 , although the number of armchair ethicals has risen from 28 to 35 per cent and only 22 per cent say they are unconcerned now , against 30 per cent in 1990 .
hughes claims that in the twenty-first century , consumers will be encouraged to think more about the entire history of the products and services they buy , including the policies of the companies that provide them and that this will require a greater degree of honesty with consumers .
among green consumers , animal testing is the top issue - 48 per cent said they would be deterred from buying a product it if had been tested on animals - followed by concerns regarding irresponsible selling , the ozone layer , river and sea pollution , forest destruction , recycling and factory farming .
however , concern for specific issues is lower than in 1990 , suggesting that many consumers feel that government and business have taken on the environmental agenda .
ministry proposes cut in corporate tax , but hikes for other taxes .
the ministry of finance 's ( mof ) recent proposals on raising many kinds of taxes and fees have been facing strong opposition from the public .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc at the gms6 business summit in late march 2013 said the government is going to cut the corporate income tax ( cit ) from 20-22 percent to 15-17 percent .
analysts think the 15-17 percent cit would be applied to micro and small-and medium-sized enterprises , respectively , as proposed by mof .
the ministry suggested a tax reduction only once recently , but it has frequently proposed to raise tax .
in august 2017 , mof stirred up the public when proposing to raise the vat ( value added tax ) from 10 percent to 12 percent and cut the number of products subject to the preferential vat rate of 5 percent , because the 10 percent tax rate is n't in line with international practice and can not ensure the nation 's financial security .
also in 2017 , the ministry insisted on raising the environmental protection tax to vnd 4,000 on every liter of petrol sold , saying taxes from crude oil are decreasing and the petrol price in vietnam is low compared with 122 countries .
in early 2018 , mof proposed raising the personal income tax rate ( pit ) to help increase the state budget revenue .
most recently , in mid-april , mof mentioned a plan to tax houses with the value of over vnd 700 million and tax cars worth over vnd 1.5 billion .
explaining the taxing of individuals assets , the ministry said that this kind of tax exists in many countries .
according to oecd ( the organisation for economic co-operation and development ) , the tax brings 4 percent of revenue in canada , 3 percent in the us , and 0 .
6 percent in developed countries .
however , vietnam 's annual income per capita is very modest , just around $ 2,000 .
raising the tax on workers with low living standards may turn the near-poor into the poor , and turn low-income earners into near-poor , said bui duc thu , a national assembly deputy .
the real reason behind mof 's decision to propose a tax hike is to increase the source of revenue for the state budget .
however , as ngo tri long , a renowned economist , said , the high public debt and prolonged budget deficit must not be blamed on low tax collections but on embezzlement , inappropriate investments , and loose financial discipline .
if the problems are n't settled , the budget deficit will still occur even if mof raises taxes many times , he said .
ignoring protests , finance ministry raises environmental tax on petrol products .
the ministry of finance ( mof ) is compiling the amended environment protection tax law .
from july , every liter of petrol will be charged an additional vnd 1,000 in environmental tax .
the proposal to amend the environmental protection tax law has faced strong opposition over the last two years when the draft law was opened for public opinion .
because the amendment of the law to expand the tax frame has been delayed , mof immediately proposed raising the environmental tax rate to the ceiling level , even though the amended environment tax law will be open for discussion again in 2019 .
mof said 40 ministries and branches agree with the draft resolution on changing the environmental protection tax rates .
mof will raise the environmental protection tax rate on petrol from vnd 3,000 per liter to vnd 4,000 , and on oil & lubricant from vnd 900 to vnd 2,000 .
the tax rate on air fuel , vnd 3,000 per liter , the highest rate in the tax framework , will remain unchanged .
as for kerosene , mof has proposed to raise the tax rate from vnd 300 per liter to the highest rate designated in the tax framework at vnd 2,000 , rejecting the opinion that it would be better to raise the rate only slightly to encourage production .
at present , e5 petrol is retailed at vnd 18,932 per liter .
an analyst estimates that everyliter of petrol bears has many kinds of taxes and fees , totaling vnd 8,500 .
if the environmental tax rate increases by vnd 1,000 , consumers will have to pay over vnd 9,000 to the state budget , or half of the petrol retail price , for every liter of petrol .
tran the truyen , ceo of saigon petro , warned that if the tax rates are raised as planned by mof , the price will be only be a little higher than e5 petrol , about vnd 200 per liter .
the modest gap will prompt people to turn their backs to bio-petrol .
truyen suggested applying a lower tax rate on e5 to help encourage the use of biofuel , stressing that most e5 users are low-income earners who need protection .
however , mof does n't think this idea is reasonable .
idea has rejected the idea of applying preferential tax rates on petrol and oil products meeting euro 4 and higher standards .
mr. ngo tri long , a pricing expert , commented that mof 's arguments are unconvincing and that the ministry is just trying every possible way to raise tax to offset the decrease in tax collection caused by tariff cuts under foreign trade agreements ( ftas ) .
five things for newcomers to discover in hcmc .
those wishing to experience culture and lifestyles as natives of hcmc should check out the following places .
strolling around night markets .
ho thi ky flower market and vo thanh trang market are perfect places for those wanting to get a broader picture of night life in hcmc .
ho thi ky , the city 's largest wholesale flower market , is home to more than 100 households selling hundreds of kinds of flowers in vivid colors .
it operates round the clock and its busiest time is from 2 a.m to 4 a.m .
with dozens of trucks carrying tons of fresh flowers to the market for delivery to sellers there .
vo thanh trang market on truong chinh street in tan binh district is known as the only traditional wet market in the city that is open day and night for nearly half a century .
like ho thi ky , goods are delivered during the small hours .
from 3 a.m to 5 a.m , trading activities turn very active .
discovering chinese-vietnamese community .
the chinese vietnamese community has been in existence for more than a century in hcmc since the first chinese immigrants arrived there in the late 19th century .
however , they have kept cultural and religious values almost unchanged .
touring district 5 , visitors can see major landmarks characterized by chinese culture .
binh tay market , the lady thien hau temple , hao si phuong alley , soai kinh lam fabric market , minh huong pagoda , and ha chuong communal club should be among the venues recommended for tourists interested in discovering how the chinese people have preserved their cultural and spiritual traits .
traveling back in time at ho chi minh city museum .
situated next to the reunification palace , the ho chi minh city museum , formerly gia long palace , was constructed in the late 19th century on 1,700 meters .
with impressive architecture , the museum tells a story about the 300-year-old city through archaeological artefacts , ceramics , old city maps and displays of marriage traditions of various ethnic groups .
the admission fee is vnd 15,000 per person .
opening hours are from 8 a.m to 5 p.m throughout the week .
this would be an ideal place for those wishing to learn about hcmc and vietnam .
the museum is located at 65 ly tu trong street , district 1 .
sipping coffee in the morning .
having a cup of coffee in the morning has become a way of life of many city dwellers .
for early risers , sipping coffee and chatting with friends on plastic stools on the sidewalk in the morning are a great experience .
prices range from vnd 10,000 to vnd 15,000 ( us $ 0.5 to us $ 0.7 ) per cup .
vy café on le thanh ton street in district 1 where canadian prime minister justin trudeau visited last year or cheo leo coffee shop on nguyen thien thuat street in district 3 are worth giving a try .
tasting street food .
when in the city , eating street food at affordable prices is another great experience .
fans of sweet soups can come to nguyen tri phuong street in district 10 , which is famous for thai-style sweet soups , or drop by cambodian-style sweet soup shop in alley 374 , le hong phong street in district 10 , run by cambodian vietnamese owner known as mrs .
located next to the busy tan dinh market in district 1 , nguyen huu cau street could be an ideal place for those who like hue-style dishes .
dim-sum lovers can get to ha ton quyen street in district 11 .
hong ha in tan binh district is famous for specialties of northern vietnam such as bun dau mam tom ( fried tofu and fresh rice vermicelli with fermented shrimp paste ) , bun oc ( noodles with snails ) , bun cha ( vermicelli served with grilled pork dipped in fish sauce ) , and banh da cua ( pancake soup served with crab ) .
nguyen canh chan in district 1 is home to a stack of eateries selling different fruits served on plates .
customers can order a combination of fresh fruits such as dragon fruit , papaya , mango , and watermelon plus yogurt , fresh milk , and shaved ice .
it is a great treat for those who want to cool themselves in a hot day .
for those looking for better dining spaces , ben thanh street food market and sense market food court at zone b of september 23 park are highly recommended .
classifying societies .
although humans have established many types of societies throughout history , sociologists and anthropologists tend to classify different societies according to the degree to which different groups within a society have unequal access to advantages such as resources , prestige or power , and usually refer to four basic types of societies .
from least to most socially complex they are clans , tribes , chiefdoms and states .
these are small-scale societies of hunters and gatherers , generally of fewer than 100 people , who move seasonally to exploit wild ( undomesticated ) food resources .
most surviving hunter-gatherer groups are of this kind , such as the hadza of tanzania or the san of southern africa .
clan members are generally kinsfolk , related by descent or marriage .
clans lack formal leaders , so there are no marked economic differences or disparities in status among their members .
because clans are composed of mobile groups of hunter-gatherers , their sites consist mainly of seasonally occupied camps , and other smaller and more specialised sites .
among the latter are kill or butchery sites—locations where large mammals are killed and sometimes butchered— and work sites , where tools are made or other specific activities carried out .
the base camp of such a group may give evidence of rather insubstantial dwellings or temporary shelters , along with the debris of residential occupation .
these are generally larger than mobile hunter-gatherer groups , but rarely number more than a few thousand , and their diet or subsistence is based largely on cultivated plants and domesticated animals .
typically , they are settled farmers , but they may be nomadic with a very different , mobile economy based on the intensive exploitation of livestock .
these are generally multi-community societies , with the individual communities integrated into the larger society through kinship ties .
although some tribes have officials and even a capital or seat of government , such officials lack the economic base necessary for effective use of .
the typical settlement pattern for tribes is one of settled agricultural homesteads or villages .
characteristically , no one settlement dominates any of the others in the region .
instead , the archaeologist finds evidence for isolated , permanently occupied houses or for permanent villages .
such villages may be made up of a collection of free-standing houses , like those of the first farms of the danube valley in europe .
the role of the chief is crucial .
often , there is local specialisation in craft products , and surpluses of these and of foodstuffs are periodically paid as obligation to the chief .
he uses these to maintain his retainers , and may use them for redistribution to his subjects .
the chiefdom generally has a center of power , often with temples , residences of the chief and his retainers , and craft specialists .
chiefdoms vary greatly in size , but the range is generally between about 5000 and 20,000 persons .
these preserve many of the features of chiefdoms , but the ruler ( perhaps a king or sometimes a queen ) has explicit authority to establish laws and also to enforce them by the use of a stand-ing army .
society no longer depends totally upon kin relationships .
it is now stratified into dif-ferent classes .
agricultural workers and the poorer urban dwellers form the lowest classes , with the craft specialists above , and the priests and kinsfolk of the ruler higher still .
the functions of the ruler are often separated from those of the priest .
palace is distinguished from temple .
the society is viewed as a territory owned by the ruling lineage and populated by tenants who have an obligation to pay taxes .
the central capital houses a bureaucratic administration of officials .
one of their principal purposes is to collect revenue ( often in the form of taxes and tolls ) and distribute it to government , army and craft specialists .
many early states developed complex redistribution systems to support these essential services .
this rather simple social typology , set out by elman service and elaborated by william sanders and joseph marino , can be criticised , and it should not be used unthinkingly .
never-theless , if we are seeking to talk about early societies , we must use words and hence concepts to do so .
service 's categories provide a good framework to help organise our thoughts .
shortage of women in vietnam means 4 million vietnamese men will never have a wife .
if vietnam 's current imbalanced sex ratio continues , around 4 million vietnamese men will have no chance to get married by the year 2050 , according to asian news network ( via asiaone ) .
the hanoi population and family planning department stated that their city 's male to female ratio of 113.6 per 100 remains high .
there are several other districts like ung hoa , son tay , ba vi , thach that , soc son , me lihn , and phu xuyen with an alarming high male to female ratio .
an estimate by the general directorate of population and family planning assumes that with the current imbalances , there will be a shortage of women in vietnam by the year 2050 , leading to 2.3 to 4.3 million wifeless vietnamese men .
although this does n't seem that big of a deal , population experts warn that this could lead to more serious problems like prostitution , human trafficking , and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases .
in vietnam , the preference for sons has become an important issue .
since daughters live with their husband 's families after marriage , there is a notion that their daughter is gone for good .
so there is a misunderstanding that without a son , there is no one to care of and look after parents when they are old .
the preference for sons in vietnam is considered so deeply rooted that several measures were taken over the years to address gender imbalance .
however , programs like family planning awareness still face many problems .
do viet hung , director of the centre of population and family planning in son tay town , said that people need to be more aware of the consequences of gender imbalance and that gender selection can bring the country more harm than good .
is a free society stable ?
there is a strong tendency for all of us to regard what is as if it were the natural or normal state of affairs , to lack perspective because of the tyranny of the status quo .
it is , therefore , well , from time to time , to make a deliberate effort to look at things in a broader context .
in such a context anything approaching a free society is an exceedingly rare event .
only during short intervals in man 's recorded history has there been anything approaching what we would call a free society in existence over any appreciable part of the globe .
and even during such intervals , as at the moment , the greater part of mankind has lived under regimes that could by no stretch of the imagination be called free .
this casual empirical observation raises the question whether a free society may not be a system in unstable equilibrium .
if one were to take a purely historical point of view , one would have to say that the normal , in the sense of average , state of mankind is a state of tyranny and despotism .
perhaps this is the equilibrium state of society that tends to arise in the relation of man to his fellows .
perhaps highly special circumstances must exist to render a free society possible .
and perhaps these special circumstances , the existence of which account for the rare episodes of freedom , are themselves by their nature transitory so that the kind of society we all of us believe in is highly unlikely to be maintained even if once attained .
this problem has , of course , been extensively discussed in the literature .
how was it , he asks , that toward the end of the nineteenth century there seemed to be a shift in english public opinion away from the doctrine of liberalism and toward collectivism , even though , just prior to the shift , individualism and laissez-faire were at something like their high tide , seeming to have captured english public opinion and seeming to be producing the results that their proponents had promised in the form of an expansion of economic activity , a rise in the standard of life , and the like ?
as you may recall , dicey dates the change in public opinion in britain away from individualism and toward collectivism at about 1870–90 .
dicey answers his question by essentially reversing it , saying that in its original form it may be a foolish question .
perhaps the relevant question is not why people turned away from individualism toward collectivism but how they were induced to accept the queer notion of individualism in the first place .
the argument for a free society , he goes on to say , is a very subtle and sophisticated argument .
at every point , it depends on the indirect rather than the direct effect of the policy followed .
if one is concerned to remedy clear evils in a society , as everyone is , the natural reaction is to say , let us do something about it , with the us in this statement in a large number of cases be translated into the government , so the natural reaction is to pass a law .
the argument that maybe the attempt to correct this particular evil by extending the hand of the government will have indirect effects whose aggregate consequences may be far worse than any direct benefits that flow from the action taken is a rather sophisticated argument .
and yet this is the kind of argument that underlies a belief in a free or laissez-faire society .
if you look at each evil as it arises , in and of itself , there will almost always tend to be strong pressures to do something about it .
this will be so because the direct effects are clear and obvious , while the indirect effects are remote and devious , and because there tends to be a concentrated group of people who have strong interests in favor of a particular measure whereas the opponents , like the indirect effects of the measure , are diffused .
one can cite example after example along this line .
indeed i think it is true that most crude fallacies about economic policies derive from neglecting the indirect effects of those policies .
the tariff is one example .
the benefits that are alleged to flow from a tariff are clear and obvious .
if a tariff is imposed , a specified group of people , whose names can almost be listed , seem to be benefited in the first instance .
the harm that is wrought by the tariff is borne by people whose names one does not know and who are unlikely themselves to know that they are or will be harmed .
the tariff does most harm to people who have special capacities for producing the exports that would pay for the goods that would be imported in the absence of a tariff .
with a tariff in effect , the potential export industry may never exist , and no one will ever know that he might have been employed in it or who would have been .
the indirect harm to consumers via a more inefficient allocation of resources and higher prices for the resulting products is spread even more thinly through the society .
thus the case for a tariff seems quite clear on first glance .
and this is true in case after case .
this natural tendency to engage in state action in specific instances can , it would seem , and this is dicey 's argument , be offset only by a widespread general acceptance of a philosophy of noninterference , by a general presumption against undertaking any one of a large class of actions .
and , says dicey , what is really amazing and surprising is that for so long a period as a few decades , sufficiently widespread public opinion developed in britain in favor of the general principle of nonintervention and laissez-faire as to overcome the natural tendency to pass a law for the particular cases .
as soon as this general presumption weakened , it meant the emergence of a climate of opinion in favor of specific government intervention .
dicey 's argument is enormously strengthened by an asymmetry between a shift toward individualism and a shift away from it .
in the first place , there is what i have called the tyranny of the status quo .
anyone who wants to see how strong that tyranny is can do no better , i believe , than to read dicey 's book now .
on reading it he will discover how extreme and extensive a collectivist he is , as judged by the kinds of standards for governmental action that seemed obvious and appropriate to dicey when he wrote his lectures .
in discussing issues of this kind , the tendency always is to take what is for granted , to assume that it is perfectly all right and reasonable and that the problem to argue about is the next step .
this tends to mean that movements in any one direction are difficult to reverse .
a second source of asymmetry is the general dilemma that faces the liberal .
tolerance of the intolerant .
the belief in individualism includes the belief in tolerating the intolerant .
it includes the belief that the society is only worth defending if it is one in which we resort to persuasion rather than to force and in which we defend freedom of discussion on the part of those who would undermine the system itself .
if one departs from a free society , the people in power in a collectivist society will not hesitate to use force to keep it from being changed .
under such circumstances it is more difficult to achieve a revolution that would convert a totalitarian or collectivist society into an individualist society than it is to do the reverse .
from the point of view of the forces that may work in the direction of rendering a free society an unstable system , this is certainly one of the most important strengths of dicey 's general argument .
perhaps the most famous argument alleging the instability of a free enterprise or capitalist society is the marxian .
marx argued that there were inherent historical tendencies within a capitalist society that would tend to lead to its destruction .
as you know , he predicted that as it developed , capitalism would produce a division of society into sharp classes , the impoverishment of the masses , the despoilment of the middle classes , and a declining rate of profit .
he predicted that the combined result would be a class struggle in which the class of the expropriated , or the proletarian class , would assume power .
marx 's analysis is at least in part to be regarded as a scientific analysis attempting to derive hypotheses that could be used to predict consequences that were likely to occur .
his predictions have uniformly been wrong .
none of the major consequences that he predicted has in fact occurred .
instead of a widening split among classes , there has tended to be a reduction of class barriers .
instead of a despoilment of the middle class , there has tended to be , if anything , an increase in the middle class relative to the extremes .
instead of the impoverishment of the masses , there has been the largest rise in the standard of life of the masses that history has ever seen .
we must therefore reject his theory as having been disproved .
the lack of validity of marx 's theory does not mean that it has been unimportant .
it had the enormous importance of leading many , if not a majority , of the intellectual and ruling classes to regard tendencies of the kind he predicted as inevitable , thereby leading them to interpret what did go on in different terms than they otherwise would .
perhaps the most striking example has been the extent to which intellectuals and people in general have taken it for granted that the development of a capitalist society has meant an increased concentration of industrial power and an increase in the degree of monopoly .
although this view has largely reflected a confusion between changes in absolute size and changes in relative size , in part i think it was produced by the fact that this was something they were told to look for by marx .
i do n't mean to attribute this view solely to the marxian influence .
but i think that in this and other instances , the marxian argument has indirectly affected the patterns of thinking of a great many people , including many who would regard themselves as strongly anti-marxian .
indeed , in many ways the ideas have been most potent when they have lost their labels .
in this way , marx 's ideas had an enormous intellectual importance , even though his scientific analysis and predictions have all been contradicted by experience .
in more recent times , joseph schumpeter has offered a more subtle and intellectually more satisfactory defense of essentially the marxian conclusion .
schumpeter 's attitude toward marx is rather interesting .
he demonstrates that marx was wrong in every separate particular , yet proceeds both to accept the major import of his conclusions and to argue that marx was a very great man .
whereas marx 's view was that capitalism would destroy itself by its failure , schumpeter 's view was that capitalism would destroy itself by its success .
schumpeter believed that large-scale enterprises and monopolies have real advantages in promoting technological progress and growth and that these advantages would give them a competitive edge in the economic struggle .
the success of capitalism would therefore , he argued , be associated with a growth of very large enterprises and with the spread of something like semi-monopoly over the industrial scene .
in its turn , he thought that this development would tend to convert businessmen into bureaucrats .
large organizations have much in common whether they are governmental or private .
they inevitably , he believed , produced an increasing separation between the ultimate owners of the enterprises and the individuals who were in positions of importance in managing the enterprises .
such individuals are induced to place high values upon technical performance and to become adaptable to a kind of civil service socialist organization of society .
in addition , this process would create the kind of skills in the managerial elite that would be necessary in order to have a collectivist or governmentally controlled society .
the development of this bureaucratic elite , with its tendency to place greater and greater emphasis on security and stability and to accept centralized control , would tend , he believed , to have the effect of establishing a climate of opinion highly favorable to a shift to an explicitly socialized and centralized state .
the view that schumpeter expressed has much in common with what burnham labeled a managerial revolution although the two are not by any means the same .
there is also much in common between schumpeter 's analysis and the distinction that veblen drew in his analysis of the price system between the roles of entrepreneurs and engineers , between business and industry .
there are also large differences .
veblen saw the engineer as the productive force in the society , the entrepreneur as the destructive force .
schumpeter , if anything , saw matters the other way .
he saw the entrepreneur as the creative force in society and the engineer as simply his handmaiden .
but i think there is much in common between the two analyses with respect to the belief that power would tend to shift from the one to the other .
for myself , i must confess that while i find schumpeter 's analysis intriguing and intellectually fascinating , i can not accept his thesis .
it seems to me to reflect in large part a widespread bias that emphasizes the large and few as opposed to the small and numerous , a tendency to see the merits of scale and not to recognize the merits of large numbers of separate people working in diverse activities .
in any event , so far as one can judge , there has been no striking tendency in experience toward an increasing concentration of economic activity in large bureaucratic private enterprises .
some enormous enterprises have of course arisen .
but there has also been a very rapid growth in small enterprises .
what has happened in this country at least is that the large enterprises have tended to be concentrated in communication and manufacturing .
these industries have tended to account for a roughly constant proportion of total economic activity .
small enterprises have tended to be concentrated in agriculture and services .
agriculture has declined in importance and in the number of enterprises , while the service industries have grown in both .
if one leaves government aside , as schumpeter 's thesis requires one to do , so far as one can judge from the evidence , there seems to have been no particularly consistent tendency for the fraction of economic activity that is carried on in any given percentage of the enterprises to have grown .
what has happened is that small enterprises and big enterprises have both grown in scale , so that what we now call a small enterprise may be large by some earlier standard .
however , the thesis that schumpeter developed is certainly sophisticated and subtle and deserves serious attention .
there is another direction , it seems to me , in which there is a different kind of a tendency for capitalism to undermine itself by its own success .
the tendency i have in mind can probably best be brought out by the experience of great britain , which tends to provide the best laboratory for many of these forces .
it has to do with the attitude of the public at large toward law and toward law obedience .
britain has a wide and deserved reputation for the extraordinary obedience of its people to the law .
it has not always been so .
at the turn of the nineteenth century , and earlier , the british had a very different reputation as a nation of people who would obey no law or almost no law , a nation of smugglers , a nation in which corruption and inefficiency was rife , and in which one could not get very much done through governmental channels .
indeed , one of the factors that led bentham and the utilitarians toward laissez-faire ( this is a view that is also expressed by dicey ) was the self-evident truth that if you wanted to get evils corrected , you could not expect to do so through the government of the time .
the government was corrupt and inefficient .
it was clearly oppressive .
it was something that had to be gotten out of the way as a first step to reform .
the fundamental philosophy of the utilitarians or any philosophy that puts its emphasis on some kind of a sum of utilities , however loose may be the expression , does not lead to laissez-faire in principle .
it leads to whatever kind of organization of economic activity is thought to produce results that are regarded as good in the sense of adding to the sum total of utilities .
i think the major reason the utilitarians tended to be in favor of laissez-faire was the obvious fact that government was incompetent to perform any of the tasks they wanted to see performed .
whatever the reason for its appeal , the adoption of laissez-faire had some important consequences .
once laissez-faire was adopted , the economic incentive for corruption was largely removed .
after all , if governmental officials had no favors to grant , there was no need to bribe them .
and if there was nothing to be gained from government , it could hardly be a source of corruption .
moreover , the laws that were left were for the most part , and again i am oversimplifying and exaggerating , laws that were widely accepted as proper and desirable .
laws against theft , robbery , murder , and so on .
this is in sharp contrast to a situation in which the legislative structure designates as crimes what people individually do not regard as crimes or makes it illegal for people to do what seems to them the sensible thing .
the latter situation tends to reduce respect for the law .
one of the unintended and indirect effects of laissez-faire was thus to establish a climate in britain of a much greater degree of obedience and respect for the law than had existed earlier .
probably there were other forces at work in this development , but i believe that the establishment of laissez-faire laid the groundwork for a reform in the civil service in the latter part of the century—the establishment of a civil service chosen on the basis of examinations and merit and of professional competence .
you could get that kind of development because the incentives to seek such places for purposes of exerting improper influence were greatly reduced when government had few favors to confer .
in these ways the development of laissez-faire laid the groundwork for a widespread respect for the law , on the one hand , and a relatively incorrupt , honest , and efficient civil service , on the other , both of which are essential preconditions for the operation of a collectivist society .
in order for a collectivist society to operate , the people must obey the laws and there must be a civil service that can and will carry out the laws .
the success of capitalism established these preconditions for a movement in the direction of much greater state intervention .
the process i have described obviously runs both ways .
a movement in the direction of a collectivist society involves increased governmental intervention into the daily lives of people and the conversion into crimes of actions that are regarded by the ordinary person as entirely proper .
these tend in turn to undermine respect for the law and to give incentives to corrupt state officials .
there can , i think , be little doubt that this process has begun in britain and has gone a substantial distance .
although respect for the law may still be greater than it is here , most observers would agree that respect for the law in britain has gone down decidedly in the course of the last twenty or thirty years , certainly since the war , as a result of the kind of laws people have been asked to obey .
on the occasions i have been in england , i have had access to two sources of information that generally yield quite different answers .
one is people associated with academic institutions , all of whom are quite shocked at the idea that any british citizen might evade the law , except perhaps for transactions involving exchanging pounds for dollars when exchange control was in effect .
it also happens that i had contact with people engaged in small businesses .
they tell a rather different story , one that i suspect comes closer to being valid , about the extent to which regulations were honored in the breach and taxes and customs regulations evaded .
the one thing that is uniform among people or almost uniform is that nobody or almost nobody has any moral repugnance to smuggling , certainly not when he is smuggling something into some country other than his own .
the erosion of the capital stock of willingness to obey the law reduces the capacity of a society to run a centralized state , to move away from freedom .
this effect on law obedience is thus one that is reversible and runs in both directions .
it is another major factor that needs to be taken into account in judging the likely stability of a free system in the long run .
i have been emphasizing forces and approaches that are mostly pessimistic in terms of our values in the sense that most of them are reasons why a free society is likely to be unstable and to change into a collectivist system .
i should like therefore to turn to some of the tendencies that may operate in the other direction .
what are the sources of strength for a free society that may help to maintain it ?
one of the major sources of strength is the tendency for extension of economic intervention in a wide range of areas to interfere directly and clearly with political liberty and thus to make people aware of the conflict between the two .
this has been the course of events in great britain after the war and in many other countries .
i need not repeat or dwell on this point .
a second source of strength is one that has already been suggested by my comments on law obedience .
in many ways perhaps the major hope for a free society is precisely that feature in a free society tha makes it so efficient and productive in its economic activity , namely , the ingenuity of millions of people , each of whom is trying to further his interests , in part by finding ways to get around state regulation .
if i may refer to my own casual observation of britain and france a few years after the war , the impression that i formed on the the basis of very little evidence but that seemed to me to be supported by further examination was that britain at the time was being economically strangled by the law obedience of her citizens while france was being saved by the existence of the black market .
the price system is a most effective and efficient system for organizing resources .
as long as people try to make it operate , it can surmount a lot of problems .
there is the famous story about the man who wrote a letter to adam smith saying that some policy or other was going to be the ruin of england .
and adam smith , as i understand the story , wrote back and said , young man , there is a lot of ruin in a nation .
this seems to me an important point .
once government embarks on intervention into and regulation of private activities , this establishes an incentive for large numbers of individuals to use their ingenuity to find ways to get around the government regulations .
one result is that there appears to be a lot more regulation than there really is .
another is that the time and energy of government officials are increasingly taken up with the need to plug the holes in the regulations that the citizens are finding , creating , and exploiting .
from this point of view , parkinson 's law about the growth of bureaucracy without a corresponding growth of output may be a favorable feature for the maintenance of a free society .
an efficient governmental organization , not an inefficient one , is almost surely the greater threat to a free society .
one of the virtues of a free society is precisely that the market tends to be a more efficient organizing principle than centralized direction .
centralized direction in this way means always having to fight something of a losing battle .
very closely related to this point and perhaps only another aspect of it is the difference between the visibility of monopolistic action , whether governmental or private , and of actions through the market .
when people are acting through the market , millions of people are engaging in activities in a variety of ways that are highly impersonal , not very well recognized , and almost none of which attracts attention .
on the other hand , governmental actions , and this is equally true of actions by private monopolies , whether of labor or industry , tend to be conducted by persons who get into the headlines , to attract notice .
i have often conducted the experiment of asking people to list the major industries in the united states .
in many ways , the question is a foolish one because there is no clear definition of industry .
yet people have some concept of industry , and the interesting thing is that the result is always very similar .
people always list those industries in which there is a high degree of concentration .
they list the automobile industry , never the garment industry , although the garment industry is far larger by any economic measure than the automobile industry .
i have never had anybody list the industry of providing domestic service , although it employs many more people than the steel industry .
estimates of importance are always biased in the direction of those industries that are monopolized or concentrated and so are in the hands of few firms .
everybody knows the names of the leading producers of automobiles .
few could list the leading producers of men 's and women 's clothing or of furniture , although these are both very large industries .
so competition , working through the market , precisely because it is impersonal , anonymous , and works its way in devious methods , tends to be underestimated in importance .
the kinds of personal activities that are associated with government , with monopoly , with trade unions , tend to be exaggerated in importance .
because this kind of direct personal activity by large organizations , whether governmental or private , is visible , it tends to call attention to itself out of all proportion to its economic importance .
the result is that the community tends to be awakened to the dangers arising from such activities and such concentration of power before they become so important that it is too late to do anything about them .
this phenomenon is very clear for trade unions .
everybody has been reading in the newspapers about the negotiations in steel and has learned that there is a labor problem in the steel industry .
the negotiations usually terminate in some kind of wage increase that is regarded as attributable to the union 's activities .
in the postwar period , domestic servants have gotten larger wage increases without anyone engaging in large-scale negotiations without anyone 's knowing that negotiations were going on and without a single newspaper headline , except perhaps to record complaints about the problem of finding domestic servants .
i think that trade unions have much monopoly power .
but i think that the importance of trade unions is widely exaggerated , that they are nothing like as important in the allocation of labor or the determination of wage rates as they are supposed to be .
they are not unimportant—perhaps 10 or 15 percent of the working force have wages now some 10 or 15 percent higher than they otherwise would be because of trade unions .
the remaining 85 percent of the working class have wages something like 4 percent lower than they would otherwise be .
this is appreciable and important , but it does not give unions the kind of power over the economy that would make it impossible to check their further rise .
the three major sources of strength i have suggested so far are the corroding effect of the extension of state activities and state intervention on attitudes toward the enforcement of the law and on the character of the civil service .
the ingenuity of individuals in avoiding regulation .
and the visibility of government action and of monopoly .
implicit in these is a fourth , namely , the general inefficiency in the operation of government .
these comments have been rather discursive .
i have been attempting simply to list some of the forces at work tending to destroy a free society once established and tending to resist its destruction .
i have left out of consideration the force that in some ways is our most important concern , namely , the force of ideas , of people 's attitudes about values and about the kind of social organization that they want .
i have omitted this force because i have nothing to say about it that is not self-evident .
no very clear conclusion can be drawn from this examination of the forces adverse and favorable to a free society .
the historical record suggests pessimism , but the analysis gives no strong basis for either great optimism or confirmed pessimism about the stability of a free society if it is given an opportunity to exist .
one of the most important tasks for liberal scholars to undertake is to examine this issue more fully in the light of historical evidence in order that we may have a much better idea of what factors tend to promote and what factors to destroy a free society .
almost half of us families ca n't afford basics like rent and food .
the economy may be chugging along , but many americans are still struggling to afford a basic middle class life .
nearly 51 million households do n't earn enough to afford a monthly budget that includes housing , food , child care , health care , transportation and a cell phone , according to a study released thursday by the united way alice project .
that 's 43 percent of households in the united states .
the figure includes the 16,1 million households living in poverty , as well as the 34,7 million families that the united way has dubbed alice -- asset limited , income constrained , employed .
this group makes less than what 's needed to survive in the modern economy .
despite seemingly positive economic signs , the alice data shows that financial hardship is still a pervasive problem , said stephanie hoopes , the project 's director .
california , new mexico and hawaii have the largest share of struggling families , at 49 percent each .
north dakota has the lowest at 32 percent .
many of these folks are the nation 's child care workers , home health aides , office assistants and store clerks , who work low-paying jobs and have little savings , the study noted .
some 66 percent of jobs in the us pay less than $ 20 an hour .
the study also drilled down to the county level .
for instance , in seattle 's king county , the annual household survival budget for a family of four ( including one infant and one preschooler ) in 2016 was nearly $ 85,000 .
this would require an hourly wage of $ 42,46 .
but in washington state , only 14 percent of jobs pay more than $ 40 an hour .
seattle 's city council just passed a controversial tax on big businesses to help alleviate the city 's growing homelessness and affordable housing problems .
india suffering worst water crisis in history , niti aayog report .
india is suffering from the worst water crisis in its history with about 60 crore people facing high to extreme water stress and about two lakh people dying every year due to inadequate access to safe water , niti aayog said in a report said on friday .
the report , titled 'composite water management index ' released by minister for water resources nitin gadkari , further said the crisis is only going to get worse .
by 2030 , the country 's water demand is projected to be twice the available supply , implying severe water scarcity for hundreds of millions of people and an eventual 6 per cent loss in the country 's gdp , the report noted .
citing data by independent agencies , the report pointed out that with nearly 70 per cent of water being contaminated , india is placed at 120th amongst 122 countries in the water quality index .
currently , 600 million indians face high to extreme water stress and about two lakh people die every year due to inadequate access to safe water , niti aayog said in the report .
it stressed that there is an imminent need to deepen understanding of water resources and usage .
citing data by agencies like dalburg analysis , fao and unicef , the report said 40 per cent of population will have no access to drinking water by 2030 and 21 cities , including new delhi , bengaluru and hyderabad , will run out of groundwater by 2020 , affecting 100 million people .
niti aayog has ranked all the states through first of its kind index on the composite water management , comprising 9 broad sectors with 28 different indicators covering various aspects of ground water , restoration of water bodies , irrigation , farm practices , drinking water , policy and governance .
meanwhile , gujarat has topped the niti aayog 's composite water management index ( cwmi ) , while tribal state jharkhand was adjudged as the worst performer .
gujarat is followed by madhya pradesh , andhra pradesh , karnataka and maharashtra on the index .
in the northeastern and himalayan states , tripura has been adjudged as the top state in 2016-17 followed by himachal pradesh , sikkim and assam .
according to the report , 52 per cent of india 's agricultural area remains dependent on rainfall , so the future expansion of irrigation needs to be focused on last-mile efficiency .
noting that water index scores vary widely across states , it said most states have achieved a score below 50 per cent and could significantly improve their water resource management practices .
according to an official statement , the cwmi is an important tool to assess and improve the performance of states/ union territories in efficient management of water resources .
it also said the index will provide useful information for the states and also for the concerned central ministries /departments , enabling them to formulate and implement suitable strategies for better management of water resources .
to street vendors in vietnam 's biggest cities , sidewalk is a lifeline .
with no jobs in the country , vendors say hanoi and saigon 's sidewalk cleanup campaigns wo n't drive them away .
a new day starts at 2.30 a.m for hiep and her four housemates who rent a small apartment tucked away down a saigon alley .
they need to make tofu pudding in time for 6 a.m , when they loads pots full of the hot dessert onto their bicycles and off they go to the inner city to find customers .
at the same time , around 1,800 kilometers ( 1,100 miles ) north , quyen loads duck embryos and chicken eggs onto the back of a motorbike and travels from the outskirts of hanoi to the old quarter in the downtown district of hoan kiem .
everyday , tens of thousands of vendors leave their rented apartments in big cities for busy streets to pay off debts and keep their families in the countryside afloat .
they are the faces behind telling statistics that have been troubling policymakers for years .
migrants and unofficial workers .
official government data from 2015 showed that migrants aged between 15 and 59 made up 17 .
3 percent of the country 's population of 90 million .
the majority of them work in the unofficial sector , which means they have no contracts or insurance , and pay no taxes .
this sector is believed to make up 20 percent of the country 's gross domestic product .
over the past year , hanoi and ho chi minh city have been taking drastic actions to reclaim the sidewalks for their original purpose by removing shops , vehicles and last but not least , street vendors .
but as long as street vending remains the only viable livelihood for these unofficial migrants , the policy is bound to fail from the start .
forced out of home .
quyen , the egg vendor , and her husband locked up their house in hung yen , a neighboring province of hanoi , abandoned their field of 2,880 square meters ( 31,000 square feet ) , and left their two children with relatives .
her husband works as a xe om driver in hanoi , while quyen sells eggs on every corner she can in the capital city 's old quarter .
everybody has left their hometowns for a more stable source of income in the city .
the small paddy field back home did n't earn us enough to raise our children .
we had no choice but to leave home , she said .
there are two types of workers in hung yen , according to quyen .
half go to vocational schools to find work in industrial parks and the other half move to hanoi to become street vendors .
quyen 's observation may be puzzling at first for a country where agricultural workers made up 40,3 percent of the labor force in 2017 , above those working in industrial ( 24.7 percent ) and service ( 34 percent ) sectors .
the things is , while the number of unemployed people in rural areas is only half of that in urban areas , the number of those who lack jobs in the countryside , meaning people who have too much free time after working in the fields , is three times higher than in the cities .
a survey conducted by the general statistics office revealed that up to 2,12 percent of people of working age in rural areas are lacking jobs , compared to the rate of only 0,73 percent in cities .
and that was calculated using vietnamese criteria .
according to the international labor organization , vietnam has only mentioned the unoccupied time people in rural areas have , and has failed to take into account their low incomes .
there is no official data on the number of people of working age in rural areas who have jobs that do n't pay enough to support their families even though they have the time and will to earn more .
that 's ms. hiep , the tofu vendor in saigon , and her husband duoc 's life in a nutshell .
in the past 20 years , hiep and duoc tried to leave the sidewalk four times , only to go back again to the city .
it 's our home , we have to stay here , where else should we be ?
hiep used to say about their house in central vietnam , followed by yet another failed attempt to turn life around that would see them back on saigon 's streets .
they 've tried everything , from farming , raising chickens , buffalo , cows , to opening a grocery store at home , but each venture left them with more debt .
in saigon , they once opened a printing shop and tried their luck with a restaurant , even menial jobs , but that was n't enough .
if we got stuck with our house , garden and field , we would only have been able to earn enough to feed our five children , but we would n't have been able to send them to school , she said standing by her mobile tofu stand .
now duoc stays at home with their children and does odd jobs , from weeding watermelon and peanut fields , to climbing up areca palms for the nuts , chopping wood , harvesting rice , building houses , slaughtering pigs and helping with funeral and wedding services .
the story of nhung , another vendor in saigon , is starkly similar .
asked why she holds on to the city 's streets , nhung said .
i tried other ways of making a living , but they all failed .
now at the age of 51 , nhung 's husband can only stay home to look after their two boys and the paddy field because of his low blood pressure that makes him physically weak .
alone in the city , nhung has to send home every spare dong she earns from running her little mobile shop in saigon .
sidewalk , the one and only chance .
a report on vietnam 's development by the world bank in 2016 revealed that the nation was witnessing a strong migration trend from rural to urban areas .
up to 20 percent of households in rural areas surveyed said at least one member in their family had left home for the city .
aside from our paddy fields , there 's only one option .
saigon , nhung said .
i can not tell when i will be able to leave the city and get back home .
now i just keep working like this .
when will you be back ?
millions of online sellers to compete with amazon in vietnam .
amazon will find it not easy to conquer the vietnamese market as it will have to compete with millions of people selling products via social networks , especially facebook , analysts say .
mai duong , 27 , an officer in hanoi who earns $ 1,000 a month , is a middle-income earner in vietnam .
however , selling goods via facebook brings her additional income 2-3 times higher .
duong specializes in selling high-quality foreign products to high income earners .
i can make a profit of vnd 30,000-50,000 for each product .
and i can sell thousands of products a month , she said .
vietnamese hackers earn vnd 1 billion a month selling facebook accounts .
hackers are creating phishing pages and websites with interfaces similar to facebook 's , to steal users ' names and passwords .
an experienced hacker can collect 10,000 users ' accounts a day .
each account is priced at vnd 3,000-5,000 .
this means they can earn vnd 1 billion a month by selling the corpses of these accounts , said tri duc , an it expert who works in the us and monitors many vietnamese groups of hackers .
experts see the tricks as only rudimentary traps , but tens of thousands of users fall into that trap every day .
not everyone is vigilant enough , especially those who often use dubious applications .
the websites with pornographic content may have latent risks , mr. duc said .
vietnamese hackers also hijack international accounts for different purposes .
facebook recently allowed vietnamese users to connect personal accounts to create fanpages .
this feature has been exploited by hackers for a long time .
hackers also prefer indonesian accounts because of the ease and the high number of people in the country .
selling bogus accounts .
after hijacking a user 's account , hackers change the names and replace the avatar with images of vietnamese hot girls , then make friends with thousands of people .
the raw accounts , after changes in names and cover images , are called by vietnamese hackers change accounts .
they then se these accounts to create pages , and friends will become page followers .
they then combine the numbers of likes from the pages .
the fanpages with millions of likes are sometimes offered for sale on mmo websites .
despite efforts made , facebook still can not settle the problem , said le minh hiep , who called himself a facebook service provider .
also according to hiep , hacked accounts can be used to gain facebook 's confidence .
in general , facebook will trust accounts that have been operating for years and updating regularly .
once gaining confidence , the accounts will have a higher success rate in creating ads and sending spam messages than newly created accounts .
in addition , hacked accounts will be used as 'zombies ' for trading likes , comments and video views .
some veteran hackers now own 3-4 million accounts of this type .
they are sold to serve the tricks that dodge facebook 's rules , hiep said .
in related news , a large number of vietnamese online businesses utilising the social network as a trading platform has been affected as facebook has just blocked api .
blocking api is believed to be a move to reaffirm the apology after the scandal of cambridge analytica company breaking into 50 million users ' personal information .
vietnamese investors buy more australian property .
vietnamese are buying more property in australia to have homes for their children studying in australia , or to settle down in the country through investment programs .
a vietnamese real estate firm spent $ 6 million to acquire an apartment project in racecourse in the kensington area of melbourne .
this was the first time a vietnamese company has developed a project in the australian housing market , competing with leading investors in the region .
dany clark from knight frank investors has shown more interest in the australian real estate market since the first weeks of the year .
the majority of investors are still from china , but he sees interest increasing from taiwan and vietnam .
one business recently spent $ 18 million to acquire a cow farm , while a real estate group spent $ 16.1 million to buy a hotel project in the central area of sydney .
nguyen le van from iwealth pro property consultant said that a high number of vietnamese are rushing to buy properties overseas for different purposes , either to have homes for their children who are studying abroad or to seek citizenship .
van said besides singapore , the us and canada , vietnamese money has been poured into the australian market .
in a move to support vietnamese businesses and individuals in australia , vietcombank , one of the four largest vietnamese commercial banks , is considering opening a branch in the country , together with branches in laos and the us .
in march , vietnam and australia officially inked the cptpp , which will increaseinvestments between the two countries .
in general , properties in australia attract vietnamese investors thanks to high safety , low risks and the market transparency .
however , an analyst said profit margins are not attractive in the short term because real estate prices rose too much in the last few years .
moreover , the uptrend of the interest rate as a result of dollar appreciation has also put pressure on the market .
according to lorelogic , house prices in sydney increased slightly by 3,1 percent in 2017 , much lower than the two-digit increases seen in 2015 and 2016 .
however , houses in the country are still expensive as their value is 13 times higher than the average income per capita .
however , investments in australia are still a good choice for those who have high incomes .
in related news , a report from nar ( national association of realtors ) showed that in the last fiscal year , from april 2016 to march 2017 , foreigners spent $ 153 billion to buy 284,455 real estate products in the us .
japanese firms interested in hcmc 's urban renovation .
urban renovation and development projects in hcmc like relocation of slums encroaching on canals and rebuilding of old tenements are drawing attention from japanese enterprises , heard a workshop on urban renovation and development in hcmc last saturday .
mr. keiji kimura , president of the japan conference on overseas development of eco-cities ( j-code ) , told the workshop that vietnam is experiencing rapid urbanization , so there are challenges similar to what japan has faced .
japan wants to cooperate with vietnam to address issues like traffic congestion , population cramming , and environmental pollution .
according to kimura , j-code 's 57 members are experienced in financial management and urban infrastructure construction .
they are willing to partner with hcmc , sharing experience and solutions .
the japanese side pledged to encourage private enterprises to develop modern and environmentally friendly urban infrastructure facilities in the city .
le hoang chau , chairman of hcmc real estate association ( horea ) , noted that japanese investments have kept flowing into vietnam 's property sector lately with the participation of many firms like hankyu , mitsubishi corporation , shimizu , hitachi and sumitomo construction .
therefore , chau hoped that vietnamese and japanese firms will enhance cooperation in urban development and property projects .
he also expressed confidence in japanese enterprises ' experiences and resources to join urban embellishment and development projects of hcmc .
le tran kien , deputy director of the hcmc department of construction , said that the city has moved some 36,000 houses encroaching on canals in the past 20 years .
however , there are still more than 21,800 canal slums that need to be cleared .
regarding construction of new tenements to replace old ones , the city 's goal towards 2020 is to renovate and reconstruct half of all condo buildings aged 50 years or so , kien told the workshop , which was participated by more than 40 japanese businesses and local property firms .
at a reception for keiji kimura last friday , hcmc chairman nguyen thanh phong said he hoped that j-code with its experience will assist the city in urban development in a way that suits the city 's needs and follows modern development trends .
at a recent conference on investments in urban renovation projects , the hcmc department of planning and investment revealed that the city needs to mobilize around vnd 23.24 trillion , or over us $ 1 billion , to relocate 21,850 houses along canals in the next three years .
due to budget constraints , attracting investments from local and foreign sources is essential to promote the city 's sustainable development .
japan is one of the few countries in east asia that does n't celebrate the lunar new year , one of the world 's largest celebrations .
this major holiday is known by many names ( the spring festival in chinese , seollal in korean , tsaagan sar in mongolian , tết in vietnamese ) and is observed in some shape or form by mainland china , taiwan , singapore , malaysia , indonesia , korea , vietnam , and mongolia -- not to mention the chinese , korean , and vietnamese diasporas worldwide .
so why does n't japan celebrate the lunar new year along with its neighbors ?
japan used to celebrate the lunar new year .
the chinese lunisolar calendar was introduced to japan in the sixth century ce , and it was the principal method of timekeeping in japan until 1873 .
prior to that , japan shared its new year 's day with china , korea , and vietnam , celebrating on the second new moon following the winter solstice .
so what changed ?
lunar no longer .
in 1873 , as part of the meiji restoration , japan adopted the gregorian calendar to bring the country in line with the west .
at that time , the prevailing attitude among many japanese elites was that asian practices were inferior to western ones , and would hold japan back unless they were abandoned .
but when the meiji government decided to adopt the gregorian calendar , they simply superimposed lunisolar calendar events onto the new calendar instead of properly converting the dates .
thus , new year , the first day of the lunisolar calendar year , fell on january 1 , the first day of the gregorian calendar year .
this creating a one month delay between japan 's new year 's celebrations and those of its neighbors like china and korea .
in contrast , china adopted a dual-calendar policy in 1912 , whereby the gregorian calendar was used for everything except setting traditional holidays , which were timed according to the chinese lunisolar calendar .
today , mainland china , taiwan , singapore , malaysia , indonesia , and vietnam all use similar systems .
the decree abolishing the lunisolar calendar was issued so suddenly that the general public was left scrambling to get ready for the new year .
according to writer asano baidō ( 1816-1880 ) , there was no time to make year-end rice cakes , so one had to buy new year rice cakes at the rice cake shop .
some people put up the kadomatsu [ a traditional decoration made of bamboo and pine ] on the second day of the twelfth month and some did n't put it up at all .
initially , opposition to the change was strong , and many people continued to celebrate the lunar new year well into the 1900s , especially in rural areas .
eventually , however , the lunisolar calendar faded completely from daily life in japan .
that is , almost completely .
today , there are still traces of japan 's lunar new year celebrations , if you know where to look .
uk security officials warn of new risks from huawei .
top uk security officials say they can only provide limited assurance that telecom equipment provided by huawei poses no threat to national security .
he chinese company , which sells smartphones and telecommunications equipment around the world , is monitored in the united kingdom by a government oversight panel called the huawei cyber security evaluation centre .
in an annual report published on thursday , the panel warned that shortcomings in huawei 's engineering processes have exposed new risks in the uk telecommunication networks .
the oversight board can provide only limited assurance that any risks to uk national security from huawei 's involvement in the uk 's critical networks have been sufficiently mitigated , it added .
huawei has repeatedly come under fire from lawmakers and government officials in the united states who accuse it of working under the influence of the chinese government .
the company has repeatedly denied that its products pose security risks , but it has remained largely shut out of the us market .
it insists it 's a private company owned by its employees .
a spokesperson for huawei said thursday that the company welcomes the uk report .
we are grateful for this feedback and committed to addressing these issues , the spokesperson said in a statement .
cyber security remains huawei 's top priority , and we will continue to actively improve our engineering processes and risk management systems .
the huawei cyber security evaluation centre was established in 2010 to mitigate risks arising from huawei 's involvement in uk national security infrastructure .
it is chaired by ciaran martin , the ceo of the uk national cyber security centre .
a spokesperson for the national cyber security centre said thursday that it was fully committed to the oversight arrangements regarding huawei .
this government and british telecoms operators work with huawei at home and abroad to ensure the united kingdom can continue to benefit from new technology while managing cyber security risks , the spokesperson said .
the national cyber security centre is part of britain 's government communications headquarters ( gchq ) spy agency .
previous annual reports from the oversight panel had concluded that risks related to huawei had been sufficiently mitigated .
unsung heroes .
in 1986 , three men volunteered to die in order to save hundreds of thousands of people , but most of us have never heard of these unsung heroes .
when a nuclear power plant in chernobyl , ukraine began releasing deadly radioactive material , workers did n't know what to do .
no one could figure out how to stop the disaster without killing themselves in the process .
to make matters worse , the plant was in danger of exploding at any moment .
the only way to prevent the explosion was to enter the toxic radioactive water and release a valve .
robots were unable to function in the radioactive water , so it would have to be done by a human .
three courageous men , knowing full well that this was a death mission , volunteered .
alexi ananenko , valeri bezpoalov and boris baronov put on a brave face and their scuba gear .
they then dove into the contaminated water and succeeded in releasing the valve .
a nuclear meltdown was avoided and hundreds of thousands of people 's lives were saved in exchange for three lost .
just a few days later , all three men died a difficult death from radiation poisoning .
they were buried in lead coffins , which were soldered shut to prevent their bodies from leaking radiation into the soil .
they became known as the chernobyl suicide squad .
even scientists are baffled by rare cases of people who ignore their survival instinct .
humans are hard-wired to survive , but heroes ignore the biological voice inside that yells protect your own life !
while we sometimes hear stories of parents who sacrifice themselves for the life of a child , this too could be seen as the human instinct to survive .
our children are part of us and through them our genes survive .
in the case of chernobyl , many people might have packed their family up in a car and sped away from the danger as fast as they could .
what makes people like ananenko , bezpoalov and baronov different ?
andrew carnegie spent his life studying heroes .
since 1904 , his hero fund has recognized more than 80,000 people for acts of pure selfless heroism .
one interesting thing that carnegie found was that heroes usually do n't see their actions as heroic at all .
professor earl babbie says , i 'll bet you wo n't find a single example of a person who says , yes , i 'm a hero .
instead , heroes usually believe they did what anyone else would have done , risked their own life for the life of someone else .
this is the great thing i 've learned from a post on the facebook page of le cong dinh .
even though people still claim about the authenticity of the letter , but i think this is a valuable letter and brings us meaning messages .
to read opposite ideas about the origin of the letter , please read this article .
i am going to translate it into vietnamese and publish next time .
this is one of valuable letters that you should read others are from .
abraham lincoln , mark zuckerberg , a principal at singapore , us ambassador in vietnam .
after two decades since the date of albert einstein passed away , his daughter has agreed to publish the heart-touched letter that the talented scientist wrote to her .
the contents of the letter can make anyone unexpected and touched .
in the late 1980s , lieserl einstein - albert einstein 's daughter donated 1,400 letters written by her father to the hebrew university during his life .
the only requirement of lieserl is that noone can publish these letters until two decades later after her father died .
in einstein 's age , everyone knew that he was not only a genius physicist , but also capable of philosophy .
einstein 's lucid thinkers in both his career in particular and life in general has become the lodestar for numerous people .
when the letter he wrote to his daughter was announced , people find it even more admirable for genius scientist .
here we quote one of the most meaningful paragraphs of his letter that einstein wrote to his eldest daughter .
when i proposed the theory of relativity , very few understood me .
there is an extremely powerful force that , so far , science has not found a formal explanation to .
it is a force that includes and governs all others , and is even behind any phenomenon operating in the universe and has not yet been identified by us .
this universal force is love .
when scientists looked for a unified theory of the universe they forgot the most powerful unseen force .
love is light , that enlightens those who give and receive it .
love is gravity , because it makes some people feel attracted to others .
love is power , because it multiplies the best we have , and allows humanity not to be extinguished in their blind selfishness .
love unfolds and reveals .
for love we live and die .
love is god and god is love .
this force explains everything and gives meaning to life .
however , each individual carries within them a small but powerful generator of love whose energy is waiting to be released .
when we learn to give and receive this universal energy , dear lieserl , we will have affirmed that love conquers all , is able to transcend everything and anything , because love is the quintessence of life .
i deeply regret not having been able to express what is in my heart , which has quietly beaten for you all my life .
maybe it 's too late to apologize , but as time is relative , i need to tell you that i love you and thanks to you i have reached the ultimate answer !
your father , albert einstein .
french theme park asks .
crows can pick up trash , why ca n't you ?
this week , the puy du fou theme park in western france put some new employees in the field .
include six trained rooks , members of the crow family , picking up small pieces of paper and cigarette butts in exchange for food .
boubou , bamboo , bill , black , bricole and baco officially started their new gigs on monday .
for the record , the park would like to note , the corvid colleagues are not replacing any human cleaning staff .
the park is very clean , puy du fou president nicolas de villiers tells npr by phone .
the purpose of the crows is to educate the people , to open their minds , to think ok , the birds are able to do something that we are much more able to do than them , so we should do this by ourselves .
cigarette butts , in particular , seem to be dropped with abandon by people who could easily take them to a trash can , de villiers says .
why not just pick them up ?
even a bird can do it , after all .
puy du fou , which calls itself france 's second-largest theme park , is located in a rural area and is famous for its historical shows — a viking attack , roman chariot races , sword fights and a falconry show .
the idea for using rooks as litter collectors came from one of the falconers .
as part of the falconry show , the theme park had already trained crows to pick up roses and bring them to a princess in a castle .
gaborit started training some rooks to do a similar task — with bits of paper or cigarette butts instead of a rose , dropping them off in a little box instead of delivering them to royalty .
it became a game for them , de villiers says .
they pick up the papers on the floor , and they are rewarded .
birds in the crow family are famously intelligent — in the wild , they use tools .
ravens have been observed making plans .
crows remember faces and , when fed by a human , have been known to give gifts in return .
and a decade ago , josh klein taught captive crows to collect money and drop it in a vending machine in exchange for a food reward , proposing a hypothetical system for training wild birds to do it .
the puy du fou trash collection system is similar to klein 's vending machine , rewarding birds with food for picking up certain items off the ground .
it uses two different sections of a wooden box , one to receive trash and the other to offer up food .
de villiers notes that the park has a license for owning and training falcons and other birds and that ordinary people should not attempt to train a wild crow to do their bidding .
after six months of training , the birds were first deployed at the theme park over the weekend .
their official introduction was monday .
they 're each working four-day weeks under close supervision — a falconer watches to make sure people are n't dropping trash just to make more work for the birds .
it 's an educational program , de villiers says .
we do n't educate the crows , but we educate the human beings .
it 's a funny way to show the people that you can not throw the papers everywhere .
rich countries pushing 'dirty energy ' in africa , report claims .
study finds that while wealthy nations advocate renewables at home , 60 percent of aid to african energy projects went on fossil fuels .
wealthy governments have been accused of promoting fossil fuel development in africa at the expense of clean energy .
analysis showed 60 percent of public aid for energy projects was spent on fossil fuels , compared with just 18 percent on renewables .
oil change international , a clean energy advocacy group that conducted the study , estimated aid to africa 's energy sector was $ 59.5 bn between 2014 and 2016 .
it found governments that were moving away from fossil fuels at home continued to fund such projects in africa , where communities are experiencing the worst impact from climate change .
egypt , angola and south africa received nearly half of the aid for energy over this period .
of the regional and multilateral development banks and 10 countries examined for the study , china gave the most to the energy sector , providing $ 5 bn a year , 88 percent of which was spent on fossil fuels .
it did not appear to finance any renewable projects on the continent .
nearly three-quarters of the money supported oil and gas extraction , and another 13 percent supported coal-fired power generation .
after china came the world bank group ( wbg ) , japan and germany .
the report estimated the bank financed mostly fossil fuel infrastructure over this period , although such lending is expected to fall after a recent announcement that it wouldfor upstream oil and gas from 2019 .
the wbg disputes the estimates .
mohamed adow , international climate change lead at christian aid , said .
these countries are using their aid budgets to promote development in africa on one hand , while their climate change-causing subsidies cancel out these gains with the other .
rich countries must stop pushing their dirty energy on africa and use their wealth to provide energy that is clean , green and will serve africa and the world for years to come .
he described the analysis of china 's aid spending on energy in africa as shocking , given that it is heavily investing in renewables at home to stop pollution in its cities .
the report showed less than 2 percent of aid to africa 's energy sector went to renewables or small-scale de-centralised energy schemes , which experts say are ideally suited to the continent 's scale , development status and sparse population density .
a recent report by the ngo tearfund , which calls for more renewable energy , found that , mainly in sub-saharan africa , would still be without electricity in 2030 .
when deciding on energy projects in africa , the most important question should be .
is this project in the best long-term interests of the people ?
said thuli makama , senior advisor for africa at oil change international .
governments should improve transparency around contracts , financing terms and energy planning , and engage in more meaningful dialogue with civil society to address this question .
the analysis also showed much of the bilateral public finance for energy in africa supported the commercial interests of donor countries .
friends of the earth us , which is calling for two-thirds of energy finance to go to distributed renewables , said .
public finance continues to be skewed toward fossil fuels in africa even though these are the communities who are experiencing the worst impacts from climate change .
if countries want to help africa improve access to electricity without suffering even greater impacts from climate change , they need to shift away from fossil fuels and provide millions more toward distributed renewables , especially in rural communities .
a spokesman for the world bank said that while it welcomed efforts to quantify public finance for energy in africa , it disagreed with the methodology used in the report and the figures published for wbg .
the world bank is committed to helping countries improve access to affordable , reliable and sustainable energy in africa and in other regions .
he added that wbg had financed 25 percent of all the solar mini-grid projects in developing countries , mainly in africa and south asia , and was on track to provide 20 percent of the total projected investment needed in off-grid solar home systems for the developing world over the next four years .
he said the world bank group had exceeded the climate finance target it set for 2020 , including by directly supporting or integrating 18 gigawatts of additional renewable energy into electricity grids and mobilising more than $ 10 bn in commercial finance for clean energy over the past two years .
the guardian approached the china development bank for comment , but did not receive a response before publication .
scientists showed in 2015 that to keep under the internationally agreed 2c global warming limit , then most existing fossil fuel reserves need to stay in the ground .
last year , the g20 nations were accused of hypocrisy for talking tough on global warming but providing four times more public finance for fossil fuels than for renewables .
beyond the bitcoin bubble .
yes , it 's driven by greed , but the mania for cryptocurrency could wind up building something much more important than wealth .
the sequence of words is meaningless .
a random array strung together by an algorithm let loose in an english dictionary .
what makes them valuable is that they 've been generated exclusively for me , by a software tool called metamask .
in the lingo of cryptography , they 're known as my seed phrase .
they might read like an incoherent stream of consciousness , but these words can be transformed into a key that unlocks a digital bank account , or even an online identity .
it just takes a few more steps .
on the screen , i 'm instructed to keep my seed phrase secure .
write it down , or keep it in a secure place on your computer .
i scribble the 12 words onto a notepad , click a button and my seed phrase is transformed into a string of 64 seemingly patternless characters .
this is what 's called a private key in the world of cryptography .
a way of proving identity , in the same , limited way that real-world keys attest to your identity when you unlock your front door .
my seed phrase will generate that exact sequence of characters every time , but there 's no known way to reverse-engineer the original phrase from the key , which is why it is so important to keep the seed phrase in a safe location .
that private key number is then run through two additional transformations , creating a new string .
that string is my address on the ethereum blockchain .
ethereum belongs to the same family as the cryptocurrency bitcoin , whose value has increased more than 1,000 percent in just the past year .
ethereum has its own currencies , most notably ether , but the platform has a wider scope than just money .
you can think of my ethereum address as having elements of a bank account , an email address and a social security number .
for now , it exists only on my computer as an inert string of nonsense , but the second i try to perform any kind of transaction — say , contributing to a crowdfunding campaign or voting in an online referendum — that address is broadcast out to an improvised worldwide network of computers that tries to verify the transaction .
the results of that verification are then broadcast to the wider network again , where more machines enter into a kind of competition to perform complex mathematical calculations , the winner of which gets to record that transaction in the single , canonical record of every transaction ever made in the history of ethereum .
because those transactions are registered in a sequence of blocks of data , that record is called the blockchain .
the whole exchange takes no more than a few minutes to complete .
from my perspective , the experience barely differs from the usual routines of online life .
but on a technical level , something miraculous is happening — something that would have been unimaginable just a decade ago .
i 've managed to complete a secure transaction without any of the traditional institutions that we rely on to establish trust .
no intermediary brokered the deal .
no social-media network captured the data from my transaction to better target its advertising .
no credit bureau tracked the activity to build a portrait of my financial trustworthiness .
and the platform that makes all this possible ?
no one owns it .
there are no venture investors backing ethereum company , because there is no ethereum company .
as an organizational form , ethereum is far closer to a democracy than a private corporation .
no imperial chief executive calls the shots .
you earn the privilege of helping to steer ethereum 's ship of state by joining the community and doing the work .
like bitcoin and most other blockchain platforms , ethereum is more a swarm than a formal entity .
its borders are porous .
its hierarchy is deliberately flattened .
oh , one other thing .
some members of that swarm have already accumulated a paper net worth in the billions from their labors , as the value of one coin of ether rose from $ 8 on jan 1 , 2017 , to $ 843 exactly one year later .
you may be inclined to dismiss these transformations .
after all , bitcoin and ether 's runaway valuation looks like a case study in irrational exuberance .
and why should you care about an arcane technical breakthrough that right now does n't feel all that different from signing in to a website to make a credit card payment ?
but that dismissal would be shortsighted .
if there 's one thing we 've learned from the recent history of the internet , it 's that seemingly esoteric decisions about software architecture can unleash profound global forces once the technology moves into wider circulation .
if the email standards adopted in the 1970s had included public-private key cryptography as a default setting , we might have avoided the cataclysmic email hacks that have afflicted everyone from sony to john podesta , and millions of ordinary consumers might be spared routinized identity theft .
if tim berners-lee , the inventor of the world wide web , had included a protocol for mapping our social identity in his original specs , we might not have facebook .
the true believers behind blockchain platforms like ethereum argue that a network of distributed trust is one of those advances in software architecture that will prove , in the long run , to have historic significance .
that promise has helped fuel the huge jump in cryptocurrency valuations .
but in a way , the bitcoin bubble may ultimately turn out to be a distraction from the true significance of the blockchain .
the real promise of these new technologies , many of their evangelists believe , lies not in displacing our currencies but in replacing much of what we now think of as the internet , while at the same time returning the online world to a more decentralized and egalitarian system .
if you believe the evangelists , the blockchain is the future .
but it is also a way of getting back to the internet 's roots .
once the inspiration for utopian dreams of infinite libraries and global connectivity , the internet has seemingly become , over the past year , a universal scapegoat .
the cause of almost every social ill that confronts us .
russian trolls destroy the democratic system with fake news on facebook .
hate speech flourishes on twitter and reddit .
for many of us who participated in the early days of the web , the last few years have felt almost postlapsarian .
the web had promised a new kind of egalitarian media , populated by small magazines , bloggers and self-organizing encyclopedias .
the information titans that dominated mass culture in the 20th century would give way to a more decentralized system , defined by collaborative networks , not hierarchies and broadcast channels .
the wider culture would come to mirror the peer-to-peer architecture of the internet itself .
the web in those days was hardly a utopia — there were financial bubbles and spammers and a thousand other problems — but beneath those flaws , we assumed , there was an underlying story of progress .
last year marked the point at which that narrative finally collapsed .
the existence of internet skeptics is nothing new , of course .
the difference now is that the critical voices increasingly belong to former enthusiasts .
we have to fix the internet , walter isaacson , steve jobs 's biographer , wrote in an essay published a few weeks after donald trump was elected president .
after 40 years , it has begun to corrode , both itself and us .
the former google strategist james williams told the guardian .
the dynamics of the attention economy are structurally set up to undermine the human will .
california becomes first state to require solar panels on new homes .
the bad news ?
already high home prices will go up .
california continues to forge a solar future for itself .
the latest is the approval of rules that require new houses and low-rise apartment buildings to have some form of solar power .
while some cities in the state already have this requirement ( and other states have considered such legislation , ) the golden state becomes the first in the united states to codify solar requirements in its building code .
the california energy commission approved the changes to the building code on may 9 .
the requirements will apply to any building permits issued after jan 1 , 2020 .
a solar panel on every roof .
the new requirements are in step with other laws on the books regarding energy consumption in california .
for instance , by 2030 , 50 percent of the state 's energy electricity must come from noncarbon-producing sources , and solar has been one of the primary sources california has invested in to achieve that goal .
additionally , the goal is expected to further boost the state 's solar industry , which is already getting plenty of attention .
this is a very large market expansion for solar , lynn jurich , co-founder and co-chief executive of sunrun , a leading solar installation company , told the new york times .
it 's very cost effective to do it this way , and customers want it .
there 's also this real american sense of freedom of producing electricity on my rooftop , she added .
and it 's another example of california leading the way .
it 's not only an issue of producing the electricity , of course .
residents also have to be able to use it .
the new rules encourage builders to install home batteries as well , giving residents the option of using the energy directly instead of funneling it to the grid .
having a battery will also help residents save on their utilities under the new rate structure , which rolls out next year and charges customers based on the time of day they use electricity .
having it stored in a battery will help residents avoid higher costs during prime usage times .
pierre delforge , senior scientist for the natural resources defense council ( nrdc ) called the new rules groundbreaking in a statement and and that they will help californians save money and reduce their carbon footprint .
the new rules will save californians more than $ 1.7 billion in net energy savings over the next 30 years and reduce carbon pollution statewide by 1.4 million metric tons , delforge wrote .
this is equivalent to the emissions from the annual electricity use of all households in the city of san francisco .
the new regulations also require other energy-efficiency measures , including insulation and better windows .
too much green to be green ?
of course , those savings wo n't be immediately apparent to new home buyers .
the commission acknowledged that the solar panel installation will result in an increased cost in home prices , with estimates ranging anywhere from $ 8,000 to $ 12,000 in additional cost , according to the times .
c.r.herro , vice president of environmental affairs for meritage homes , told consumer affairs he estimates the new energy standards could add between $ 25,000 and $ 30,000 to construction costs .
increasing housing costs are a legitimate concern in the state .
four of the nation 's five most expensive housing markets in the fourth quarter of 2017 were in california , according to the national association of realtors .
san jose topped the list , with the median cost of an existing family home at $ 1.27 million .
the lowest of the four , san diego-carlsbad , was $ 610,000 .
the state 's housing crisis is real , state assemblyman brian dahle told usa today .
california 's affordability problem is making it more and more difficult for people to afford to live here .
the commission and the construction industry , which is generally positive on the new rules , say the increased costs will be offset by the energy savings residents see over the course of the home 's lifetime .
the energy commission estimates the new standards will add about $ 40 to an average monthly payment on a 30-year mortgage but will also save consumers $ 80 on monthly heating , cooling and lighting bills , per the times .
additionally , the nrdc argues that the new rules will still help low-income residents .
they spend twice as much on energy per dollar of income than the statewide average , the nrdc says , and these efficiency improvements will provide relief from expensive energy bills .
the fastest sailing ship of all time .
the fastest commercial sailing vessels of all time were clippers , three-masted ships huilt to transport goods around the world , although some also took passengers .
from the l840s until 1869 .
when the suez canal opened and steam propulsion was replacing sail , clippers dominated world trade .
although many were built , only one has survived more or less intact .
cutty ' sark , now on display in greenwich , southeast london .
cutty sark 's unusual name comes from the poem tam o shanter by the scottish poet .
a farmer , is chased by a witch called nannie , who is wearing a 'cutty sark ' - an old scottish name for a short nightdress .
the witch is depicted in cutty sark 's figurehead , the carving of a woman typically at the front of old sailing ships .
in legend , and in bums 's poem , witches can not cross water , so this was a rather strange choice of name for a ship .
cutty sark was built in dumbarton , scotland , in 1869 , for a shipping company owned by john willis .
to carry out construction , willis chose a new shipbuilding firm .
and ensured that the contract with them put him in a very strong position .
in the end , the firm was forced out of business , and the ship was finished by a competitor .
willis 's company was active in the lea trade between china and britain , where speed could bring shipow ners both profits and prestige , so cutty sark w as designed to make the journey more quickly than any other ship .
on her maiden voyage , in 1870 , she set sail from london , carrying large amounts of goods to china .
however , cutty sark never lived up to the high expectations of her owner , as a result of bad winds and various misfortunes .
on one occasion , in 1872 , the ship and a rival clipper .
thermopylae , left port in china on the same day .
crossing the indian ocean , cutty sark gained a lead of over 400 miles , hut then her rudder was severely damaged in stormy seas , making her impossible to steer .
the ship 's crew had the daunting task of repairing the rudder at sea , and only succeeded at the second attempt .
cutty sark reached london a week after thermopylae .
steam ships posed a growing threat to clippers , as their speed and cargo capacity increased .
in addition , the opening of the suez canal in 1869 , the same year that cutty sark was launched , had a serious impact .
school pencil cases banned to stop 'stigma ' .
a school has banned pencil cases in a bid to stop pupils from poor families being stigmatised .
st wilfrid 's primary school in blyth , northumberland , said it had taken steps to get rid of any designer goods .
head teacher pauline johnstone said pencil cases have been banned so there 's no comparison on the tables and children are learning .
st wilfrid 's was among more than 100 schools in a project to stop poorer pupils being stigmatised .
after working with charity children north east , the school has begun providing stationery and has cut down on the number of dress-up and fundraising days .
there was a culture within the school , within pupils , that noticed those children who were never in on pe days for example , ms johnstone said .
part of our uniform policy is a standard backpack so we do n't have any designer goods .
she said some parents complained about having to buy certain bags but enough time was left before the rule was fully enforced .
the poverty proofing the school day project , led by children north east , encouraged teachers to look at ways in which some pupils might be unwittingly excluded .
schools said it has led to higher attendance and better results .
the charity also said dress-up days or conversations about what we did at the weekend can also penalise those from low-income backgrounds .
it said schools also found more discreet ways of distributing free school uniforms as parents and children were reluctant to approach them directly .
pupils at burnside college in wallsend , north tyneside , said not having the right stuff caused pressure and could lead to bullying .
jason , 14 , added .
if you do n't have the expensive stuff people will call you things like tramp , which is n't right .
harris , 15 , said .
there was a real big issue with some people , it really got to them .
there was a really big social expectation to have the best things and it was affecting school life for a lot of people .
there was groups created around who had the best things but i think that has been taken away .
that 's not an issue anymore .
children north east has poverty proofed schools across teesside , tyne and wear and northumberland , as well as schools in grimsby and brighton which have requested the project .
chief executive jeremy cripps said the project had improved behaviour and helped more pupils take part in extra-curricular activities .
the government is constantly saying that the way out of poverty is educational achievement and by that they mean doing well in school exams and ideally going on to further education , he added .
but if you 're not engaging with it to start with you really have n't got a chance to take advantage of all that education .
former us first lady barbara bush dies at 92 .
barbara bush , the former us first lady and literacy campaigner , has died at the age of 92 .
she was the matriarchal figure of a political dynasty that included two presidents - her husband george hw bush and son george w bush .
mrs bush , who was first lady from 1989 to 1993 , had been in failing health for some time and had declined further medical treatment .
tributes to her poured in from across the us political establishment .
her husband , at 93 , is the longest-lived us president .
their son , george , was elected in 2000 and served two terms as the nation 's 43rd president .
my dear mother has passed on at age 92 .
laura , barbara , jenna , and i are sad , but our souls are settled because we know hers was .
barbara bush was a fabulous first lady and a woman unlike any other who brought levity , love , and literacy to millions .
mr bush said his mother had kept us on our toes and kept us laughing until the end , adding .
i 'm a lucky man that barbara bush was my mother .
our family will miss her dearly , and we thank you all for your prayers and good wishes .
a statement from the office of her husband described her as a relentless proponent of family literacy .
mrs bush was also the mother of jeb bush , who served as governor of florida from 1999 to 2007 and unsuccessfully ran for the white house in 2016 .
as first lady , mrs bush went beyond the traditional role of a political spouse , founding the barbara bush foundation for family literacy to help parents and children from disadvantaged communities to read and write .
family rock .
she was a fierce advocate of civil rights and went against many of her husband 's republican party supporters with her more liberal view on abortion rights .
in a statement from the white house , president donald trump said mrs bush would be long remembered for her devotion to country and family , both of which she served unfailingly well .
barack and michelle obama described her as the rock of a family dedicated to public service and as an example of the humility and decency that reflects the very best of the american spirit .
another former us president , bill clinton , said mrs bush was feisty in support of her family and friends , her country and her causes .
he said he and hillary clinton would never forget the courtesy she and president bush showed us .
mrs bush was known for her snow-white hair and was dubbed the silver fox by her family .
she once dismissed speculation that she had influenced her husband during his time in the white house , saying .
i do n't fool around with his office and he does n't fool around with my household .
mrs bush also sparked a debate on gender equality in 1990 with an address to the all-women wellesley college .
she told graduates .
who knows , somewhere out in this audience may even be someone who will one day follow in my footsteps and preside over the white house as the president 's spouse and i wish him well .
george hw bush , who served as the 41st us president , suffers from a form of parkinson 's disease and uses a wheelchair .
it was recently announced that mrs bush had declined further medical treatment after a series of hospital visits , but the statement did not reveal the nature of her ailments .
she said she wanted to spend her last days in comfort care with her family .
mrs bush was born barbara pierce , the daughter of marvin pierce , publisher of mccall 's magazine .
she grew up in rye , new york .
she met her future husband in 1941 at a christmas party in connecticut and the couple celebrated their 73rd wedding anniversary in january this year .
they had six children including a daughter , robin , who died of leukaemia aged three in 1953 .
as well as george and jeb , the other bush children are neil , marvin and dorothy .
mrs bush was one of only two women whose husband and son became us president , and the only one to have seen them both sworn in .
abigail adams was married to the second us president , john adams , and was the mother of the sixth , john quincy adams , although she did not live to see their son elected .
why india 's pink city is a photographer 's paradise .
the city of jaipur is one of india 's architectural wonders .
it houses some of the country 's most ornate royal palaces -- elaborate structures designed hundreds of years ago that still captivate visitors today .
largely built in the 1700s under the order of rajput ruler sawai raja jai singh ii , jaipur is surrounded by a city wall and several defensive forts .
conceived as a commercial center in the state of rajasthan , it was considered ahead of its time due to the use of grid iron city planning .
a romantic dusty pink hue -- which has defined the city since 1876 , after it was painted pink to welcome queen victoria 's husband , prince albert -- gives jaipur its status as the pink city , as it is commonly known .
this architectural beauty is what first brought hong kong-based photographers victor cheng and samantha wong to rajasthan 's capital .
trading in glass skyscrapers for century-old royal palaces and historic forts , the pair who have 130,000 instagram followers between them -- said that the images they captured in jaipur received an unprecedented response online .
the response to our photographs of jaipur has been amazing , almost ridiculous , cheng said .
a lot of our followers had n't seen this side of india , so we 're happy we were able to show this side of the country .
the pink city .
for the photographers , one of the city 's most intriguing traits is the pastel pink coloring of its buildings .
the first gates you see when you enter are pink , said wong .
once you 're through , everything around you varies in different shades of the color -- from bright pinks to reddish browns .
one pink palace proved especially popular on social media , receiving hundreds of comments within days of being shared .
the historic hawa mahal .
the building is an extension of the city palace , and its windows allowed royal women to observe street life without appearing in public .
one of cheng 's most striking photos shows a straight facade of the building and its hundreds of windows .
it was n't easy to capture .
there was a coffee shop across the street with a rooftop , and we had to wait for over an hour for the crowds to disappear in order to get that perfect shot , said cheng .
the building 's vibrant coloring also pushed cheng to take a different approach to editing than with images of other cities .
i toned down my usual editing process because the pink was so bright and saturated in reality , he said .
i wanted the photos to reflect the actual color i was seeing myself and to maintain its tone .
complex symmetry .
the city 's formative buildings were created in a rajasthani architectural style , which blends the complex construction of hindu rajput building techniques with the striking symmetry of mughal design .
a lot of the buildings were designed to be very symmetrical , which from a photographer 's perspective works out very nicely , said cheng .
surrounded by elaborate symmetrical structures , cheng said little effort was required to produce or stage his images .
it did n't require much work .
because if i just stood in the middle , my camera could capture things perfectly .
the buildings and color made it easy for us to capture perfect shot .
oldest message in a bottle found on western australia beach .
a perth family has found the world 's oldest known message in a bottle , almost 132 years after it was thrown into the sea , australian experts say .
tonya illman picked up the bottle while going for a walk around sand dunes on a remote beach in west australia .
her husband kym illman told the bbc they found some paper in the bottle but had no idea what it was until they took it home and dried it in the oven .
experts have confirmed it is an authentic message from a german ship .
the note in the bottle , which was dated 12 june 1886 , was jettisoned from the german ship paula , as part of an experiment into ocean and shipping routes by the german naval observatory .
previously , the guinness world record for the oldest message in a bottle was 108 years , between it being sent and found .
rolled up cigarette .
the illman family were driving through a beach north of wedge island on 21 january when the car became bogged down in the sand , and mrs illman and her friend decided to go for a walk .
tonya saw a whole lot of rubbish on the ground , and thought she 'd help pick up some rubbish , mr illman told the bbc .
she found and picked up the bottle , thinking it would be nice for her bookshelf , he added .
he said his wife passed the bottle to our son 's girlfriend , who saw what she thought was a rolled-up cigarette , and tipped it out with the sand .
tonya tried to untie the string around the paper , but it was rather fragile , so we took it home and put it in the oven for five minutes to dry up the moisture .
then we unrolled it and saw printed writing .
we could not see the hand written ink at that point , but saw a printed message that asked the reader to contact the german consulate when they found the note .
later , they also noticed faint handwriting on the note , with a date of 12 june 1886 and the name of the ship , paula .
when they saw the date they thought it was too far-fetched to be real , mr illman said - but they researched the bottle online and took it to experts at the western australian museum .
dr ross anderson , assistant curator maritime archaeology at the wa museum , confirmed the find was authentic after consulting with colleagues from germany and the netherlands .
incredibly , an archival search in germany found paula 's original meteorological journal and there was an entry for 12 june 1886 made by the captain , recording a drift bottle having been thrown overboard .
the date and the coordinates correspond exactly with those on the bottle message , dr anderson said .
the handwriting on the journal , and the message in the bottle , also matched , he added .
the bottle was jettisoned in the south-eastern indian ocean while the ship was travelling from cardiff in wales to indonesia , and probably washed up on the australian coast within 12 months , where it was buried under the sand , he wrote in his report .
thousands of bottles were thrown overboard during the 69-year german experiment but to date only 662 messages - and no bottles - had been returned .
the last bottle with a note to be found was in denmark in 1934 .
the bottle found on wedge island was found mostly exposed without any form of cork or closure , and was about a quarter full of damp sand , and the bottle appeared to have lain buried or mostly buried , partially filled with damp sand , dr anderson added .
sand dunes in the area are quite mobile during storm events and heavy rain , so the bottle could have been subject to cyclical periods of exposure which could have led to the cork in the bottle drying out and becoming dislodged , while the tightly rolled paper along with a quantity of sand remained inside preserved .
the narrow 7 mm bore of the bottle opening and thick glass would have assisted to buffer and preserve the paper from the effects of full exposure to the elements , providing a protective microenvironment favourable to the paper 's long-term preservation , the report added .
vietnam march on into final .
vietnam are remarkably through to the final of the 2018 afc u-23 championship after beating qatar on penalties following a 2-2 draw in tuesday 's semi-final at the changzhou olympic sports centre .
it was the qataris who opened the scoring six minutes before halftime when akram afif converted from the penalty spot , after almoez ali had been dragged down inside the box at a set-piece .
however , nguyen quang hai equalised in the 69th minute after a mix-up between bassam al-rawi and ahmad moein allowed him to pounce on a loose ball inside the box and finish past mohammed al-bakari .
qatar then looked to have stolen the win with three minutes remaining , when almoez ali bundled the ball over the line from close range after the vietnamese failed to clear their lines .
but , miraculously , quang hai fired them level again in the 89th minute , receiving possession on the edge of the box and and cutting onto his left foot before curling a sublime effort in off the post .
with neither side able to net in extra-time , it meant that vietnam once again had to deal with the dreaded penalty shootout after winning last saturday 's quarter-final against iraq in similar fashion .
and it initially looked as though they were in trouble as their first effort from quang hai was saved by al-bakari .
nonetheless , bui tien dung emerged as the hero in the shootout for vietnam as he kept out efforts from both moein and sultan al-brake , paving the way for vu van thanh to fire home the winning spot-kick and send vietnam into saturday 's final .
vietnam u23 prepare to take on qatar in semi-finals .
vietnam u23 's head coach park hang-seo has admitted that his players were completely exhausted after three difficult matches in the group stage with the republic of korea , australia and syria .
however , in the quarterfinals with iraq late saturday , park 's side had no signs of fatigue .
against strong opponents playing long ball as iraq u23 , vietnam u23 still stayed firm for 120 minutes before knocking down their rivals in the penalty shootout .
vietnam 's squad surprised the title favourite iraqis by their strength and endurance .
this is one of the biggest differences of the korean head coach compared to his predecessors as he helps his players , not only play confidently , but also maintain strength in all 90 or even 120 minutes .
previously the vietnamese team almost did not have a break during training when competing in a formal tournament .
however , park hang-seo is different .
after the 0 - 0 draw with syria u23 , the korean coach decided to let the team free from training despite they had a difficult upcoming match against iraq u23 .
instead , he allowed his players go to the sauna and use hydrotherapy to recover .
then , vietnamese players had a dinner outside , at a restaurant in changshu ( jiangsu , china ) , instead of eating at the hotel .
after the 120 minute game and then the tense shootout with iraq , park continued to refresh the team in his own way .
vietnam u23 were present in changzhou on sunday morning after two hours of traveling from changshu .
coach park has asked his players to return seriously in preparation for the semi-final against qatar , but he still gave the players a training break on sunday afternoon .
those who had played the quarterfinals were going to the sauna and undergoing physiotherapy .
the remaining were required to practice at gym centres strengthen physical strength .
vietnam u23 will have a sole training session on monday afternoon at the changzhou sports centre .
the team has been promised to be rewarded an additional vnd 500 million in rewards from the vietnam professional football joint stock company ahead of their match next tuesday .
the semifinal with qatar u23 will take place at 15 hours in changzhou on january 23 ( hanoi time ) .
a new sports trend for women in vietnam .
it is a combination of strong boxing moves and elegant dance steps .
boxing and dancing together is proving the perfect combination of exercise for a rising number of women in vietnam .
piloxing barre , the official name of the sport , was introduced to female sports lovers in the southeast asian country only two weeks ago via a program named 'power women series , ' organized by a well-known sports brand .
the sport has quickly gained a lot of attention and become a new trend in exercise .
piloxing barre is well cut out for the ladies .
the movements are strong enough to make us sweat but also maintain poise in dancing , ngoc yen , a newcomer to the sport , said .
it is exhausting yet very exciting .
at a dance center in district 2 , ho chi minh city , piloxing barre classes have been open for several months , instructed by swiss coach sandrine barblan .
barblan previously taught zumba and belly dancing in the vietnamese city before achieving her piloxing barre certificate last year .
the classroom she uses is equipped with air conditioners and surrounded by mirrors .
following a warm-up , learners begin their practice by executing basic boxing moves such as jab , hook , and uppercut .
the movements are mixed with lively dance steps to the sound of up-tempo music .
during the lessons , each student stands next to a set of horizontal bars , akin to those used in ballet training , to help them keep balance .
piloxing barre can be thought of as an elegant form of boxing or a tougher form of dancing , coach barblan said , adding that it is a good cardiovascular exercise that usually lasts for 45 minutes .
the sport can help improve strength and endurance , she elaborated .
it can also be a good choice for people with heart and joint conditions , the swiss instructor said .
however , she recommended that her trainees undergo proper health-checks to understand whether they are suitable for the sport .
emmanuelle dupasquier , a french expat who has practiced piloxing barre for some time , said that women were often afraid that certain types of exercise would affect their figures .
previously taking part in dancing , aerobics , and bodybuilding , dupasquier considered piloxing barre a perfect harmony of strength and flexibility .
piloxing barre was invented by viveca jensen , a professional dancer in sweden , who also has a master 's degree in pilates .
piloxing is the combination of pilates and boxing , while barre represents the horizontal bars included in the lessons .
the sport has been introduced in 92 countries and attracted about 1,5 million registered students .
vietnam become new force in table tennis .
even as singapore 's pang xue jie walked away in disappointment , the vietnamese athletes hugged each other excitedly .
these were the scenes that were played out at the same time after the final match of the men 's table tennis team event at the malaysia 29th southeast asian ( sea ) games .
vietnam ended singapore 's gold winning streak in the sport at the games , becoming the first team to do so , since singapore set up their reign in 1995 .
the vietnamese team of three , đinh quang linh , nguyễn anh tu and đoàn bá tuan anh , made history by winning 3-1 over singapore , which played gao ning , clarence chew and pang , all naturalised from china .
gao is the top-ranked southeast asian male player , at no 46 .
it is a historic victory for vietnam in this regional games .
we have taken the men 's singles and doubles , and the mixed doubles titles , but have never won a men 's team event , the most important one , before , said phan anh tuan , head of table tennis department of the national sports administration .
in other sports , a gold medal must be normal , but this is a valuable one , because asean is home to many world table tennis stars , said tuan .
tuan is working on documents to submit for the certificate of merit from the prime minister .
vietnam had a poor start when linh lost 1-3 to gao in the first singles match .
however , world no 427 tu gave hope to the team by beating no 199 chew 3-1 in the second match .
the night 's biggest surprise , however , was sprung by vietnamese doubles side of anh and linh , who recovered after trailing 1-2 to secure a come-from-behind 3-2 win over gao and pang in the third tie .
the singaporeans had won the doubles title the previous day .
their win was a turning point in the finals that gave vietnam a clear chance to win the overall title .
tu had the important task of playing pang in the decisive fourth match .
while members of both teams watched with bated breath , the points were won equally by both the players in the first two sets .
finally , tu won 13-11 and 11-9 .
the more tu played , the better he became .
the southeast asian champion gave no chance to 24-year-old peng , who is ranked 275th in the world , in the third set .
tu won consecutive points and quickly led 10-3 .
taking a long breath he served for the winning point , which was returned to his right hand corner .
tu made a strong hit guiding the ball to peng 's right a corner .
it was so difficult that peng 's return went wide .
tu dropped his paddle and jumped into the open arms of his teammates , all of them realised that a new page had been opened in the history of the games .
we talked a lot about doing well in every match from the group round itself .
it is the finals , there is nothing to lose , we have to play our best , earning point by point for the final victory .
i felt pressure prior to the match partly because we had set the target for a gold medal , but after six previous events we just had two bronzes .
it was more difficult for me when veteran linh lost the first match .
if i had failed too , vietnam would be pushed into a difficult situation .
however , the coaches and teammates encouraged me a lot , asking me to give everything i had .
and i made it .
the win has helped lighten our burden and brightened our hopes , said tu .
it is a meaningful title for us .
we have waited to see a gold again for eight years , since the last one that i won with đoàn kiến quốc in 2009 , said linh , whose 29th sea games might be his last .
head coach nguyễn nam hải believed that the victory resulted from careful preparation prior to the games , as well as the unity of the team members .
everything was planned .
we had intensive training courses in vietnam and abroad .
we have watched our rivals from the group round and analysed their pros and cons .
we understood that to take the top podium beating singapore was a must , said hải .
my players supported each other very well .
in the team , we have experienced and young talented players .
they all try to make up for others ' weaknesses .
and they all put in their best performance that day .
so , we could succeed , said hải , who received congratulations from other teams such as thailand , indonesia and the hosts .
formula one chiefs considering vietnam grand prix as a replacement for malaysia .
liberty media , who own the racing company , want to hold a race in ho chi minh city .
formula one bosses are investigating plans to hold a grand prix in vietnam .
sunsport understands that officials have travelled to the south east asian country with a view to staging a race in ho chi minh city .
while discussions are still in the early stages , several sponsors , including brewing giant heineken , are keen to increase their market share in the asia-pacific region .
last year , the country opened its first professional racetrack , although it is currently some way short of the requirements set out by the sport 's governing body .
meanwhile , former f1 supremo , bernie ecclestone said april that he turned down the chance of hosting a race in vietnam , as the country had no racing history .
ecclestone also revealed that he felt that with singapore , malaysia and china on the calendar it would be too much to have a gp in vietnam as well .
last year i was approached about having a race in vietnam .
i was offered the opportunity to meet the president about doing a deal for a grand prix .
i could have done the deal and signed it in august .
everything was arranged for this to happen but i did n't do the deal because we already have quite a few races in that part of the world and i thought it might be a little bit over the top to have another one .
however , given that the organisers of the malaysian gp will terminate their contract with f1 's owners liberty media after this season , it would allow f1 to keep three races in the region .
young masters win medals at asian champs .
vietnamese young masters earned four silver medals at the asian youth chess championships in uzbekistan yesterday .
hoàng minh hiếu was second in the u10 open 's blitz event , with seven points after nine matches .
sindarov islombek of the hosts won the gold with 7,5 points .
in the girls ' u12 blitz chess , nguyễn thiên ngân won a silver medal with seven points , while her teammate trần đăng minh quang finished second in the open discipline .
the last medal went to bạch ngọc thùy dương in the girls ' u14 who earned as many points as indian jishitha daghli , but she came in second due to her lower parameter .
the vietnamese masters also earned two bronze medals in blitz chess , won by phạm trần gia phúc in the u8 open and nguyễn quốc hy in the u12 open .
teams will take part in the closing ceremony today and return home .
arsene wenger says win over chelsea was one of arsenal 's best recent displays .
arsenal 's 3 - 0 victory over chelsea was one of their best performances in recent years , according to manager arsene wenger .
he gunners were dominant , winning through first-half goals from alexis sanchez , theo walcott and mesut ozil .
it was their first league victory over chelsea since 2011 and their heaviest defeat of the blues since april 1997 .
it 's one of the games where what we wanted to do worked very well .
it 's one of those moments in your life as a manager where you think today is a great day .
the frenchman said his side had been nearly perfect in the first half .
in the second half it was a bit in and out but in the first half we have shown great quality , he said .
we played with style , with pace , with movement and that 's the kind of football we want to play .
it 's one of the best performances in recent years .
the win leaves arsenal third in the premier league , five points behind manchester city , who have won all six of their matches so far .
wenger , who celebrates his 20th anniversary as arsenal manager next week , added .
the quality of our performance confirmed that we are on the way up .
there 's still room for improvement .
now let 's continue to improve .
the only negative for wenger was losing midfielder francis coquelin to a first-half knee injury .
the 25-year-old frenchman missed two months of last season with a similar problem .
he has a knee injury at the same place he had last year at west brom .
we do n't know if the damage is as big at the moment , we have to wait for 48 hours .
but he left the stadium in a brace and i 'm a bit worried for that .
myanmar begins teaching vovinam .
myanmar has introduced the vietnamese martial arts vovinam into the curricula of two national sport academies in yangon and mandalay , according to quan doi nhan dan newspaper .
the move was based on a decision by myanmar 's sports ministry and the martial art federation to develop the sport in the long term .
myanmar has supported vietnam 's effort to include vovinam in the competition at the 29 th sea games hosted by malaysia in 2017 .
founded in 1938 , vovinam is practised with and without weapons .
it varies between hard and soft movements and requires training the body and the mind .
currently , the martial art has spread to more than 50 countries worldwide .
​four world vovinam championship have been organised so far , with the fourth taking place in algeria in 2015 , attracting the participation of 250 officials , referees and contestants from 20 countries worldwide .
two vietnamese gymnasts qualify for 2016 brazil olympics .
gymnasts phan thi ha thanh and pham phuoc hung have qualified to represent vietnam at the 2016 olympic games , following their performances at an olympic qualifying tournament in brazil .
thanh , born in the northen port city of hai phong , scored 52,700 points in the women 's all-around category , which was her best ever international showing .
while thanh 's teammate , hung scored 84,032 points in the men 's all-around event to earn a slot to brazil this summer .
four years ago , both hung and thanh competed at the london olympics .
hung won a gold medal at the 2013 world gymnastics championships in slovenia .
at the 2015 world championship in scotland , he made history after one of his techniques was officially named after him and added to the men 's gymnastics code of points of the international gymnastics federation .
thanh has won many gold medals at regional and world events .
at present , vietnam has earned 14 slots to compete at the olympics in brazil in fencing , shooting , wrestling , athletics , weighlifting , swimming and gymnastics .
vietnam rank eighth in chess at asian national cup .
vietnam beat sri lanka 4 - 0 in the eighth round of the open category during the asian national cup chess tournament in the united arab emirates on april 4 .
vietnam now rank eighth with four points and will meet leading india in the last round .
in the women 's category , vietnam lost to china .
three of four vietnamese players were defeated , while one managed a draw .
the three losses led vietnam to drop to the fifth position after the eighth round .
with one round left , they have no chance of entering the top three positions .
world champions china , on the other hand , maintain their lead at the top .
after the standard chess tournament , the players will take part in the rapid and blitz events .
vietnam 's male squad will be strengthened by the presence of former world champion le quang liem .
the championships ended on april 8 .
vn football team climbs two places on global rankings .
the national men 's football team of vietnam has advanced to 144th place in the fifa world rankings this april , according to the vietnam football federation .
the improvement after months of staying at 146th position is attributable to the team 's convincing victory ( 4 – 1 ) over taiwan at the 2018 fifa world cup qualifying round , the federation said .
in southeast asia , vietnam follows the philippines at 116th position globally and thailand in 119th position .
it ranks 23rd in asia , with iran ( 42 nd in global rankings ) taking the lead .
the world 's best team this month is argentina , followed by belgium , chile and colombia .
brazilian futsal coach shares passion for training young vietnamese .
an experienced brazilian futsal coach has settled in vietnam , continuing a mission of turning a generation of young vietnamese into great futsal players .
antonio jose azevedo ( zego ) coaches players on the under-13 thai son nam futsal team in ho chi minh city on march 28 , 2016 .
antonio jose azevedo , or zego , a 63-year-old futsal coach from brazil with over 40 years of experience in training kids , has been coaching young players in the thai son nam futsal club , the top team on vietnam , for the past four years .
zego starts each training session at the club 's stadium in district 8 , ho chi minh city , by teaching young players new techniques before correcting their mistakes .
the coach then works with the kids , imparting tips and tricks gathered from his decades of experience in the game , in order to help his club develop the best techniques to excel on the field .
the brazilian coach came to vietnam in august 2012 after being introduced to tran anh tu , chair of the ho chi minh city football federation , by sergio gargelli , head coach of vietnam 's national futsal team at the time .
despite a lower salary , zego decided to leave his job in spain for a coaching position with thai son nam after being offered the position .
his motivation for the move was rooted in knowing that vietnam is one of the few asian countries interested in training young futsal players at an early age .
he was first charged with the coaching and strategic training of the club 's under-18 team before becoming a mentor to 20 players on the under-13 team in july 2015 .
training children is a career that zego loves , the coach said , adding that he has worked as a sports instructor for both adult and junior teams in about 20 different countries , mostly in europe .
zego has found a special place in his heart for younger players as he wants to watch them grow each day , which has been a joy for him while working in vietnam , the coach continued .
he said that his vietnamese students are very fast learners and have a bright future in the sports .
as futsal has its differences with association football , it is recommended that players begin training at young ages , zego assessed , adding that children in his country usually start at the age of six .
the vietnamese national futsal team winning a ticket to the 2016 world cup in colombia in september has been a great motivation for his students , zego said .
the trainer believes that the under-13 team will become the best generation of vietnamese futsal players , as they have been given some great advantages compared to their older counterparts .
besides comprehensive training at an early age , the kids are allowed to observe the older and more experienced players during practice , according to zego .
the young players also have the opportunity to participate in friendly matches with the older athletes , he added .
hieu nghi , one of zego 's students , said that before being coached by zego , he would often become nervous when given the ball as he feared that it might be stolen by his opponents .
however , with the instruction of the brazilian coach , nghi has overcome this problem .
the young player believed that with helpful and exciting lessons from his teacher , he would become a member of the national futsal team and be able to compete in international championships .
zego , with his professional experience , has been doing a very good job for the past four years .
i have great hope in the young players of his team , chairman tu asserted .
born in 1953 in sao paulo , zego is a well-known name in the futsal world .
he played on the brazil national futsal team for six years .
among his accomplishments , the coach spent eight years in spain training the country 's two major futsal clubs , which have each won national and european championships several times .
sharing a little about his personal life , zego said that he was not married , adding that if he was , his wife would not let him work in so many countries .
the coach often takes a walk after work around his neighborhood in district 7 or heads to one of his favorite restaurants in district 1 .
the bustling life of ho chi minh city during day and night is an attraction for expats like him , zego said .
10 things we ca n't wait to see in 'the money fight ' .
almost no one expects the floyd mayweather jr vs .
conor mcgregor bout to be competitive , but everyone knows the appeal of the fight is the spectacle and novelty .
the uniqueness of the event and the star level of the competitors will make for some memorable images and moments .
like it or not , we 'll remember this event and the following 10 things could stick out in our minds the most .
here 's the list of things we ca n't wait to see during and after the money fight .
the celebrities in attendance .
most fights with major names bring out a healthy number of celebrities .
i do n't have a seating chart or a-list , but i 'd expect to see charles barkley , rosie perez , magic johnson , dave chappelle and more of the usual suspects .
expect to see shots of the crowd for as long as the fight lasts .
the walkouts .
traditionally , combat sports walkouts in the united states are n't as grandiose as they are in japan or in the united kingdom , but this fight could be the exception .
even if it goes according to script , mcgregor 's slow walk out to foggy dew and i get money medley will still be epic .
the staredowns from the international tour got pretty boring after the first two , but the one that takes place in the center of the ring on saturday night will be chilling .
the two men will be set to throw hands instead of verbal jabs .
it 'll be interesting to see each man 's demeanor mere seconds before the real fight begins .
mcgregor 's stance .
we 've seen boxers clowning mcgregor 's fight preparation and warm up drills .
we 've even seen some rather rudimentary footwork and bag work from the ufc lightweight champion , but we have n't seen his in-action boxing stance .
i 'm interested to see if he stands with his legs too far apart , or if he changes anything about the way he approaches his fights in the ufc .
the first punch mcgregor throws .
we 've seen floyd throw thousands of punches over the years .
we 've seen mcgregor throw his share of rights and lefts in the ufc , but not one in a real professional boxing match .
though the glove size has been reduced to eight ounces , one still has to wonder how fast his hands will look in mitts that are bigger than what he fights in with the ufc .
the first punch mcgregor lands .
some wonder if mcgregor will be able to land any shots on mayweather .
others think that one clean blow from mcgregor will put mayweather in trouble .
both are probably exaggerations .
at some point , mcgregor will land a punch .
it may not be a clean , flush shot on mayweather 's chin , but he 'll land .
once mcgregor finds out how difficult it is to hit and hurt mayweather , he may realize how deeply he 's in over his head .
mayweather 's form .
money has said this will be his final fight .
the 40-year-old has n't fought in two years , so there 's a possibility he could have some ring rust .
i believe mayweather 's 80 percent is good enough to beat mcgregor , but i 'll be watching to see how well he moves and how sharp his reflexes are at the end of his career .
paulie malignaggi 's color commentary .
without question , malignaggi and andre ward are the two commentators in the sport of boxing .
they offer insight that only a former or active fighter can , and they do it with excellent articulation and organized thoughts .
that 's reason enough to listen to malignaggi work the maymac fight , but his disdain for mcgregor will force the magic man to lean on his professionalism .
he 's done it before .
despite being fresh off a war of words and losing his welterweight title to adrien broner , malignaggi showed no bias when he worked the problem 's unanimous-decision loss to marcos rene maidana six months later .
with malignaggi potentially positioning himself for a payday against mcgregor , we 'll be listening to hear a few jabs during the showtime pay-per-view broadcast .
twitter reactions .
maymac is going to take over twitter for most of the evening on saturday and a good portion of sunday and monday .
during the fight , every casual and semi-casual boxing fan who is connected on twitter will be spewing hot takes after each round .
most of it will be useless , but entertaining nonetheless .
i guess that 's appropriate because that 's probably a good description of the fight .
the post-fight interviews .
no matter who wins , the post-fight interviews should be interesting .
if mayweather wins , his last words in a ring as a fighter should n't be missed .
there could be tears , a hug with his dad , and he may even leave his gloves in the ring .
in any case , it will be a significant scene .
mcgregor 's explanation for his loss should be entertaining , and we 'll all be hoping to hear about his ufc plans .
with the jon jones issue , the organization needs him more than ever .
if mayweather somehow loses , we 'll see him in a way we never have before .
mayweather has never conducted an interview after a loss .
how would he even handle such a situation ?
if mcgregor wins , get ready for the rant of the century .
he will instantly become the biggest superstar in combat sports , and the undisputed a-side in any negotiation .
unfortunately for him , that 's not going to happen , but it 's fun for him and his fans to ponder .
dreaming of gold .
vietnam to send 23 athletes to rio 2016 olympics .
the country has invested more than $ 2,1 million in training its athletes .
swimmer hoang quy phuoc has become the latest vietnamese athlete qualified for the 2016 summer olympic games in brazil , officials announced friday .
the 23-year-old man will join 22 other athletes that vietnam will send to rio to compete in a number of sports including shooting , weightlifting , badminton and judo .
earlier this year , sports authorities said they expected to send only 15 athletes to the games .
vietnam has invested more than vnd 48 billion ( us $ 2,1 million ) in training its athletes for the olympics , which will be held from august 5 - 21 in rio .
it targets at least one medal .
vietnamese female rower qualified for rio olympics .
pham thi hue yesterday earned the 15th olympic slot for vietnam after her success during the rowing qualification tournament in south korea .
pham thi hue ( right ) seen at the finish of the olympic rowing qualification tournament in south korea yesterday .
hue qualified for the games .
photo thethaovietnam facebook .
hue , 26 , came in second place in the women 's single sculls during the semi-final round , with a time of 8 min 0,53sec , and qualified for the brazilian olympics this summer .
hue ranked sixth in the first round and was one of 12 athletes entering the semifinals .
in the semis she took the lead from the beginning , though a host rower jumped ahead in the final 100m , which was enough for her to take her own olympic ticket , said nguyen hai duong , head of the rowing department of the national sports administration .
today , hue will take part in the final , while teammates pham thi thao and ta thanh huyenh compete in the women 's lightweight double sculls .
in vietnam , one-handed table tennis coach lives with burning passion , optimism .
after losing his right hand 41 years ago , a vietnamese table tennis coach still enjoys life and a passion for playing and teaching his sport .
nguyen duy viet , a 64-year-old former soldier , has been a ping-pong instructor at the ba dinh sports center on quan thanh street , hanoi , for many years .
viet is full of joy , optimism , and has an appreciation for life , according to lieutenant general nguyen phuc hoai , a former official at the general political department under the ministry of national defense , and one of viet 's students .
i used to play tennis , badminton , billiards , and more .
now i find table tennis better suited for my age , lt gen hoai said .
i ran into viet one day and discovered that he was teaching table tennis at the sports center and decided to attend his class three times a week , the former military official recounted .
despite losing a hand over four decades ago , viet 's expertise , facilitated by enthusiasm and an optimistic spirit , is superb , hoai elaborated , adding that sport not only brings health but also the joy of life to people like him and viet .
students of the one-handed coach are mainly adults , but viet makes exceptions to teach those under special circumstances , including children with autism and senior citizens with failing health or eyesight .
i 've played table tennis with a burning passion for 40 years .
you can only master the form of sport through relentless practice and a love for the game , the teacher explained .
despite lacking coaching certification , many people in the capital still choose to enroll in viet 's class , which only costs vnd 100,000 ( us $ 4.49 ) per hour .
the coach sometimes has to teach three to four shifts in a single day , he said .
viet was born in 1952 with an innate passion for sport and was introduced to it at an early age .
in 1969 , the coach joined the military and served as an air defender in the north-central province of quang tri for three years , during which he kept a table tennis paddle at his side to play with his comrades whenever there was free time .
ping-pong helped me stay positive during my roughest times in the war , viet said .
the trainer lost his right arm in an accident while serving in the military , bringing about a turning point in his life .
after peace was reestablished , viet returned to the hanoi university of agriculture to finish his studies , bringing along great optimism and determination .
nothing is impossible .
i still have my left hand and have learned to write and practice table tennis with it , viet asserted .
the coach has been teaching table tennis for over two decades in several places , earning a living and fueling his passion for ping-pong .
vietnam to spend $ 78 mln hosting southeast asian games in 2021 .
the biennial event to return to the country after 18 years .
hanoi has confirmed that it will host the 31st southeast asian games in 2021 , promising to organize the sporting event economically .
the capital city said monday that it has submitted a plan to the ministry of culture , sports and tourism and the general department of sports .
current facilities will be upgraded to serve the event and no new facility will be built , as instructed by prime minister nguyen tan dung .
according to the 80 page plan , a total of more than vnd 1,74 trillion ( us $ 78 million ) will be spent on the event .
nearly vnd 1 trillion will be earmarked for organizing activities and the rest for upgrading relevant facilities , including the my dinh sports complex and aquatic sports center .
other venues in nearby provinces can also be used .
total revenue is expected to be nearly vnd 97 billion , including contributions from 10 other participating countries , sponsors , advertisement and broadcast rights .
that is around 5,6 percent of the investment .
hanoi hosted the 22nd sea games in 2003 and the asian indoor games in 2009 .
the 31 st sea games will be held for the last two weeks of november 2021 , with more than 10000 participants and 36 sports .
vietnam is targeting the first place in the medal standings .
barcelona fc may visit vietnam in 2017 .
the ceo in asia pacific of barcelona fc , xavier asensi , said at a press conference in hanoi on march 8 that the fc will consider visiting vietnam from 2017 .
mr. do quang hien receives a barcelona fc jersey from sensi at the signing ceremony on march 8 .
mr. do quang hien , chairman of t & t group and the boss of shb da nang fc , on march 8 signed a strategic cooperation agreement to develop the co-branded cards with barcelona fc .
at the press conference after the event , ceo of fc barcelona in asia pacific xavier asensi said the fc will consider sending its stars like messi , neymar to vietnam .
to bring barca to vietnam , firstly we must have a trusted partner .
this condition has been met after the signing ceremony today .
however , we are very busy in 2016 so we can not go to asia .
in 2017 , if barcelona goes to asia , we will choose vietnam for sure , said asensi .
however , he said .
currently , we do not have any official talks about bringing barcelona fc to vietnam .
according to asensi , there are a lot of criteria to invite barcelona , of which the community of fans in the host country is very important .
i can confirm that vietnamese fans are very passionate .
we and our partner will take many activities to develop the community of barcelona fans in vietnam in the coming time , he added .
after the event , shb bank became the first and only partner of barcelona in vietnam , laos and cambodia .
we are so happy to have shb as our first ever banking partner in vietnam , laos and cambodia .
shb is young and taking a leading role in the industry , while barcelona is deep-rooted and has been successful in defending its glory .
i do believe the collaboration between these two different yet similar entities will create huge buzz and synergy , xavier asensi , fcb asia pacific 's managing director , said .
fcb vice president manel arroyo said the signing of this new regional sponsorship deal reaffirmed their interest in increasing the team 's presence in asia .
it also reflected how the club was gaining notable levels of notoriety in this strategic zone , which encouraged them to continue enhancing their presence in the region .
shb is proud to be the first and only partner bank of fc barcelona in vietnam , laos and cambodia .
this is not just a business opportunity for shb .
it will benefit a large number of football fans , in particular , and sports fans , in general , shb chairman do quang hien said .
fcb are now a leading club in the world .
they currently own 23 la liga titles , 27 copas del rey , 11 national super cups and two spain league cups .
in the international arena , fcb have also grabbed 19 trophies , including the uefa champions league and clubs world cup .
shb , which ranks amongst the top five private commercial banks in the country , is currently the main sponsor of shb da nang fc .
in 2014 , shb became the only banking strategic partner of manchester city in vietnam , which invited and sponsored european giant manchester city to hanoi last july .
hanoi accepts invitation to house sea games 2021 .
the southeast asian games will once again return to hanoi in 2021 , after an 18-year long hiatus , following formal acceptance of the offer to host the games by the hanoi municipal people 's committee .
after ho chi minh city bowed out of the running – the ministry of culture , sports and tourism ( mocst ) offered hanoi the opportunity to host the 31st sea games to be held from november-december 2021 .
in announcing the agreement , vuong bich thang of the mocst said it was his understanding that haiphong , bac ninh , hai duong , and nam dinh will also participate in organizing the event .
having previously been home to the games in 2003 , hanoi 's second time around is especially significant , as it presents the city with the perfect opportunity to put its best face forward and show the world its true cultural identity .
an estimated 11 countries will feature in 36 sports and 402 events at the 31st sea games , which could draw an estimated 13,000 sports enthusiasts from all parts of the globe , said mr thang .
huu thang chosen to coach vietnam 's national football team .
local media reported he will be pay nearly $ 9,000 a month , the highest ever offered to a local coach .
the vietnam football federation has chosen one of the country 's most famous players nguyen huu thang as the new coach of the national men 's team , ending weeks of speculation and debate over the much scrutinized position .
thang , 44 , is expected to sign a two-year contract with vff to replace japanese coach toshiya miura , who was dismissed last month following the team 's poor performance at the recent asian football confederation u23 championship .
his monthly salary has been said to be about vnd 200 million ( us $ 8,930 ) , the highest for a local coach .
but vff has dismissed the information reported by many local newspapers .
miura was paid $ 10,000 a month .
a vff official said the new contract does not specify goals for thang .
however , our expected targets are a gold medal at the 29th southeast asian games in malaysia and the final of the 2016 aff cup , he said .
a ha tinh province native , thang used to play as midfielder for song lam nghe an from 1993-1999 and the national team from 1996-2000 .
he started coaching his former club since 2005 , with a brief gig at hanoi t & t in 2009 .
thang helped song lam nghe an win the national cup in 2010 and v.league champion title in 2011 .
julian bames explores the questions posed by life-casts , an exhibition of plaster moulds of living people and objects which were originally used for scientific purposes .
art changes over time and our idea of what art is changes too .
for example , objects originally intended for devotional , ritualistic or re-creational purposes may be recategorised as art by members of other later civilisations , such as our own , which no longer respond to these purposes .
what also happens is that techniques and crafts which would have been judged inartistic at the time they were used are reassessed .
life-casting is an interesting example of this .
it involved making a plaster mould of a living person or thing .
this was complex , technical work , as benjamin robert haydon discovered when he poured 250 litres of plaster over his human model and nearly killed him .
at the time , the casts were used for medical research and , consequently , in the nineteenth century life-casting was considered inferior to sculpture in the same way that , more recently , photography was thought to be a lesser art than painting .
both were viewed as unacceptable shortcuts by the senior 1 arts .
their virtues of speed and unwavering realism also implied their limitations .
they left little or no room for the imagination .
for many , life-casting was an insult to the sculptor 's creative genius .
in an infamous lawsuit of 1834 , a moulder whose mask of the dying french emperor napoleon had been reproduced and sold without his permission was judged to have no rights to the image .
in other words , he was specifically held not to be an artist .
this judgement reflect the view of established members of the nineteenth-century art world such as rodin , who commented that life-casting happens fast but it does n't make art .
some even feared that if too much nature was allowed in , it would lead art away from its proper course of the ideal .
the painter gauguin , at the end of the nineteenth century , worried about future developments in photography .
if ever the process went into colour , what painter would labour away at a likeness with a brush made from squirrel-tail ?
but painting has proved robust .
photography has changed it , of course , just as the novel had to reassess narrative after the arrival of the cinema .
but the gap between the senior and junior arts was always narrower than the traditionalists implied .
painters have always used technical back-up such as studio assistants to do the boring bits , while apparently lesser crafts involve great skill , thought , preparation and , depending on how we define it , imagination .
time changes our view in another way , too .
each new movement implies a reassessment of what has gone before .
what is done now alters what was done before .
in some cases this is merely self-serving , with the new art using the old to justify itself .
it seems to be saying , look at how all of that points to this .
are n't we clever to be the culmination of all that has gone before ?
but usually it is a matter of re-alerting the sensibility , reminding us not to take things for granted .
take , for example , the cast of the hand of a giant from a circus , made by an anonymous artist around 1889 , an item that would now sit happily in any commercial or public gallery .
the most significant impact of this piece is on the eye , in the contradiction between unexpected size and verisimilitude .
next , the human element kicks in you note that the nails are dirt-encrusted , unless this is the caster 's decorative addition , and the fingertips extend far beyond them .
then you take in the element of choice , arrangement , art if you like , in the neat , pleated , buttoned sleeve-end that gives the item balance and variation of texture .
this is just a moulded hand , yet the part stands utterly for the whole .
it reminds us slyly , poignantly , of the full-size original .
but is it art ?
and , if so , why ?
these are old tediously repeated questions to which artists have often responded .
it is art because i am an artist and therefore what i do is art .
however , what does n't work for literature works much better for art – works of art do float free of their creators intentions .
over time the reader does become more powerful .
few of us can look at a medieval altarpiece as its painter intended .
we believe too little and aesthetically know too much , so we recreate and find new fields of pleasure in the work .
equally , the lack of artistic intention of paul richer and other forgotten craftsmen who brushed oil onto flesh , who moulded , cast and decorated in the nineteenth century is now irrelevant .
what counts is the surviving object and our response to it .
the tests are simple .
does it interest the eye , excite the brain , move the mind to reflection and involve the heart .
it may , to use the old dichotomy , be beautiful but it is rarely true to any significant depth .
one of the constant pleasures of art is its ability to come at us from an unexpected angle and stop us short in wonder .
although it was called tiger , it looked like a dog with black stripes on its back and it was the largest known carnivorous marsupial of modern times .
yet , despite its fame for being one of the most fabled animals in the world , it is one of the least understood of tasmania 's native animals .
the scientific name for the tasmanian tiger is thylacine and it is believed that they have become extinct in the 20th century .
fossils of thylacines dating from about almost 12 million years ago have been dug up at various places in victoria , south australia and western australia .
they were widespread in australia 7,000 years ago , but have probably been extinct on the continent for 2,000 years .
this is believed to be because of the introduction of dingoes around 8,000 years ago .
because of disease , thylacine numbers may have been declining in tasmania at the time of european settlement 200 years ago , but the decline was certainly accelerated by the new arrivals .
the last known tasmanian tiger died in hobart zoo in 1936 and the animal is officially classified as extinct .
technically , this means that it has not been officially sighted in the wild or captivity for 50 years .
however , there are still unsubstanti-ated sightings .
hans naarding , whose study of animals had taken him around the world , was conducting a survey of a species of endangered migratory bird .
what he saw that night is now regarded as the most credible sighting recorded of thylacine that many believe has been extinct for more than 70 years .
i had to work at night , naarding takes up the story .
i was in the habit of intermittently shining a spotlight around .
the beam fell on an animal in front of the vehicle , less than 10m away .
instead of risking movement by grabbing for a camera , i decided to register very carefully what i was seeing .
the animal was about the size of a small shepherd dog , a very healthy male in prime condition .
what set it apart from a dog , though , was a slightly sloping hindquarter , with a fairly thick tail being a straight continuation of the backline of the animal .
it had 12 distinct stripes on its back , continuing onto its butt .
i knew perfectly well what i was seeing .
as soon as i reached for the camera , it disap-peared into the tea-tree undergrowth and scrub .
the director of tasmania 's national parks at the time , peter morrow , decided in his wisdom to keep naarding 's sighting of the thylacine secret for two years .
when the news finally broke , it was accompanied by pandemonium .
i was besieged by television crews , including four to live from japan , and others from the united kingdom , germany , new zealand and south america , said naarding .
government and private search parties combed the region , but no further sightings were made .
the tiger , as always , had escaped to its lair , a place many insist exists only in our imagination .
but since then , the thylacine has staged something of a comeback , becoming part of australian mythology .
there have been more than 4,000 claimed sightings of the beast since it supposedly died out , and the average claims each year reported to authorities now number 150 .
associate professor of zoology at the university of tasmania , randolph rose , has said he dreams of seeing a thylacine .
but rose , who in his 35 years in tasmanian academia has fielded countless reports of thylacine sightings , is now convinced that his dream will go unfulfilled .
the consensus among conservationists is that , usually , any animal with a population base of less than 1,000 is headed for extinction within 60 years , says rose .
sixty years ago , there was only one thylacine that we know of , and that was in hobart zoo , he says .
dr. david pemberton , curator of zoology at the tasmanian museum and art gallery , whose phd thesis was on the thylacine , says that despite scientific thinking that 500 animals are required to sustain a population , the florida panther is down to a dozen or so animals and , while it does have some inbreeding problems , is still ticking along .
i 'll take a punt and say that , if we manage to find a thylacine in the scrub , it means that there are 50-plus animals out there .
after all , animals can be notoriously elusive .
mooney has seen individuals bankrupted by the obsession , and families destroyed .
elephant communication .
o'connell-rodwell , a postdoctoral fellow at stanford university , has travelled to namibia 's first-ever wildlife reserve to explore the mystical and complicated realm of elephant communication .
she along with her colleagues , is part of a scientific revolution that started almost 20 years ago .
this revolution has made a stunning revelation elephants are capable of communicating with each other over long distances with low-frequency sounds , also known as infrasounds , which are too deep for humans to hear .
as might be expected , african elephants able to detect seismic sound may have something to do with their ears .
the hammer bone in an elephant 's inner ear is proportionally huge for a mammal , but it is rather normal for animals that use vibrational signals .
thus , it may be a sign that suggests elephants can use seismic sounds to communicate .
other aspects of elephant anatomy also support that ability .
first , their massive bodies , which enable them to give out low-frequency sounds almost as powerful as the sound a jet makes during takeoff , serve as ideal frames for receiving ground vibrations and transmitting them to the inner ear .
second , the elephant 's toe bones are set on a fatty pad , which might be of help when focusing vibrations from the ground into the bone .
finally , the elephant has an enormous brain that sits in the cranial cavity behind the eyes in line with the auditory canal .
the front of the skull is riddled with sinus cavities , which might function as resonating chambers for ground vibrations .
it remains unclear how the elephants detect such vibrations , but o'connell-rodwell raises a point that the pachyderms are listening with their trunks and feet instead of their ears .
the elephant trunk may just be the most versatile appendage in nature .
its utilisation encompasses drinking , bathing , smelling , feeding and scratching .
both trunk and feet contain two types of nerve endings that are sensitive to pressure—one detects infrasonic vibration , and another responds to vibrations higher in frequencies .
as o'connell-rodwell sees , this research has a boundless and unpredictable future .
our work is really interfaced of geophysics , neurophysiology and ecology .
we 're raising questions that have never even been considered before .
it has been well-known to scientists that seismic communication is widely observed among small animals , such as spiders , scorpions , insects and quite a lot of vertebrate species like white-lipped frogs , blind mole rats , kangaroo rats and golden moles .
nevertheless , o'connell-rodwell first argued that a giant land animal is also sending and receiving seismic signals .
i used to lay a male planthopper on a stem and replay the calling sound of a female , and then the male one would exhibit the same kind of behaviour that happens in elephants—he would freeze , then press down on his legs , move forward a little , then stay still again .
i find it so fascinating , and it got me thinking that perhaps auditory communication is not the only thing that is going on .
scientists have confirmed that an elephant 's capacity to communicate over long distance is essential for survival , especially in places like etosha , where more than 2,400 savanna elephants range over a land bigger than new jersey .
it , is already difficult for an elephant to find a mate in such a vast wild land , and the elephant reproductive biology only complicates it .
breeding herds also adopt low-frequency sounds to send alerts regarding predators .
even though grown-up elephants have no enemies else than human beings , baby elephants are vulnerable and are susceptible to lions and hyenas attack .
at the sight of a predator , older ones in the herd will clump together to form protection before running away .
we now know that elephants can respond to warning calls in the air , but can they detect signals transmitted solely through the ground ?
to look into that matter , the research team designed an experiment in 2002 , which used electronic devices that enabled them to give out signals through the ground at mushara .
the outcomes of our 2002 study revealed that elephants could indeed sense warning signals through the ground , o'connell-rodwell observes .
last year , an experiment was set up in the hope of solving that problem .
it used three different recordings—the 1994 warning call from mushara , an anti-predator call recorded by scientist joyce poole in kenya and a made-up warble tone .
the data i 've observed to this point implies that the elephants were responding the way i always expected .
however , the fascinating finding is that the anti-predator call from kenya , which is unfamiliar to them , caused them to gather around , tense up and rumble aggressively as well—but they did n't always flee .
i did n't expect the results to be that clear-cut .
a vietnamologist gave expats advice on living in việt nam .
vietnamologist daria mishukova started pursuing vietnamese studies and language in 1995 , when she was a freshman majoring in oriental studies at far eastern university , russia .
two years later , she took her first step into việt nam .
besides academic study , daria has traveled from the north to the south .
and even to remote mountainous areas .
meeting local people and learning about their culture .
over two decades into her love affair with this foreign land , mishukova has gone from visitor to expert , having authored việt nam .
the land of dragons and fairies , considered one of the top foreign works on the country in print .
speaking the local language makes the world around brighter , sharper .
it is like the focus and other filters in photography .
if your approach and attitude is positive , it will bring more light into the picture , and finally you got a perfect image of a contemporary cultural context , she said .
cultural backgrounds form typical patterns of thinking and interpreting the world around us .
when we live in a different cultural environment , practised consciousness of different ways of living can bring us huge benefits , she said .
when living abroad , it is important to create a balance between being open socially and keeping your own values personally .
when swimming in the sea of a different culture , knowing language and customs will help you polish this skill to perfection , daria added .
after graduating from far eastern university in 2001 , daria mishukova worked in the university 's southeast asia studies faculty and later became deputy dean of the faculty .
by march 2007 , with her 11-year experience in vietnamese studies and travel throughout the country , daria mishukova released her first book about việt nam named việt nam – the land of dragons and fairies , which was translated into vietnamese by the author herself in 2013 .
the book covers almost every aspect of việt nam .
it 's geographic and climate conditions to traditional customs and historical relic sites , and it is considered to be one of the most interesting books in russian about việt nam in recent years .
the book , is neither a guide book nor a research issue by nature .
if a reader is curious about what is việt nam , the book gives an understanding of primary values of vietnamese culture .
the book has been very popular both among professionals in tourism business and travelers .
collecting as a hobby .
collecting must be one of the most varied of human activities , and it 's one that many of us psychologists find fascinating .
many forms of collecting have been dignified with a technical name .
an archtophilist collects teddy bears , a philatelist collects postage stamps , and a deltiologist collects postcards .
amassing hundreds or even thousands of postcards , chocolate wrappers or whatever , takes time , energy and money that could surely to much more productive use .
and yet thereare millions of collectors around the world .
why do they do it ?
there are the people who collect because they want to make money .
this could be called an instrumental reason for collecting .
that is , collecting as a means to an end .
they 'll look for , say , antiques that they can buy cheaply and expect to be able to sell at a profit .
but there may well be a psychological element .
buying cheap and selling dear can give the collector a sense of triumph .
and as selling online is so easy , more and more people are joining in .
many collectors collect to develop their social life , attending meetings of a group of collectors and exchanging information on items .
this is a variant on joining a bridge club or a gym , and similarly brings them into contact with like-minded people .
another motive for collecting is the desire to find something special , or a particular example of the collected item , such as a rare early recording by a particular singer .
some may spend their whole lives in a hunt for this .
psychologically , this can give a purpose to a life that otherwise feels aimless .
there is a danger , though , that if the individual is ever lucky enough to find what they 're looking for , rather than celebrating their success , they may feel empty , now that the goal that drove them on has gone .
if you think about collecting postage stamps another potential reason for it .
or , perhaps , a result of collecting is its educational value .
stamp collecting opens a window to other countries , and to the plants , animals , or famous people shown on their stamps .
similarly , in the 19th century , many collectors amassed fossils , animals and plants from around the globe , and their collections provided a vast amount of information about the natural world .
without those collections , our understanding would be greatly inferior to what it is .
in the past and nowadays , too , though to a lesser extent .
a popular form of collecting , particularly among boys and men , was trainspotting .
this might involve trying to see every locomotive of a particular type , using published data that identifies each one , and ticking off each engine as it is seen .
trainspotters exchange information , these days often by mobile phone , so they can work out where to go to , to see a particular engine .
as a by-product , many practitioners of the hobby become very knowledgeable about railway operations , or the technical specifications of different engine types .
similarly , people who collect dolls may go beyond simply enlarging their collection , and develop an interest in the way that dolls are made , or the materials that are used .
these have changed over the centuries from the wood that was standard in 16th century europe , through the wax and porcelain of later centuries , to the plastics of today 's dolls .
or collectors might be inspired to study how dolls reflect notions of what children like , or ought to like .
not all collectors are interested in learning from their hobby , though , so what we might call a psychological reason for collecting is the need for a sense of control , perhaps as a way of dealing with insecurity .
stamp collectors , for instance , arrange their stamps in albums , usually very neatly , organising their collection according to certain commonplace principles-perhaps by country in alphabetical order , or grouping stamps by what they depict -people , birds , maps , and so on .
one reason , conscious or not , for what someone chooses to collect is to show the collector 's individualism .
someone who decides to collect something as unexpected as dog collars , for instance , may be conveying their belief that they must be interesting themselves .
and believe it or not , there is at least one dog collar museum in existence , and it grew out of a personal collection .
of course , all hobbies give pleasure , but the common factor in collecting is usually passion .
pleasure is putting it far too mildly .
more than most other hobbies , collecting can be totally engrossing , and can give a strong sense of personal fulfilment .
to non-collectors it may appear an eccentric , if harmless , way of spending time , but potentially , collecting has a lot going for it .
photo of old vietnamese woman fetches us $ 30,000 .
an overseas vietnamese living in australia identified as cong nguyen has spent us $ 30,000 to purchase the printed version of the photo titled hidden smile by french photographer rehahn , who has been residing in the ancient town of hoi an in the central coast province of quang nam for seven years .
the photograph features 79-year-old boat rower bui thi xong on the hoai river in the ancient town , who had a meeting with the french photographer in the summer of 2011 when he came to the town as a tourist .
rehahn said the hidden smile work is his favorite shot from his collection of over 50,000 photos depicting vietnam .
it was used for the cover of his first photo book vietnam-mosaic of contrasts published in 2014 to sing the praise of the beautiful natural landscape of vietnam and its people through 150 photographs .
rehahn took the photograph when xong bashfully covered her face while smiling in front of his camera .
when i looked at mrs. xong photo , i saw so much more than just the subject .
every wrinkle , every crease .
not a blemish but a story of a life earned , a life lived .
devotion , work ethic and yet so much incredible warmth in her eyes .
i did n't choose this photo .
it chose me , cong nguyen told the daily in an email earlier this week .
all the proceeds from photo sales will be granted to the construction of a cultural museum for co tu ethnic minority people in the upland district of tay giang , quang nam province , as part of his giving back project designed to improve the lives of the characters in his photos who are in poor rural areas of vietnam , rehahn said .
the museum is scheduled to be finished late this year .
the 38-year-old french photographer had traveled more than 35 countries before he decided to settle down in the unesco-recognized world heritage site of hoi an in quang nam .
last year , he also opened a new gallery called couleurs d'asie by rehahn – saigon at 151 / 7 dong khoi street in hcmc 's district 1 to mark the 10-year milestone of his career as a photographer .
vietnamese new year wishes .
the vietnamese new year or tet is one of the most popular holidays in vietnam and is celebrated with much enthusiasm and religious fervour .
much like the new year celebrations of china and south korea that follow the lunar calendar , tet too is a celebration of the arrival of spring that the beauty that comes with it .
with the winter months coming to an end , where the barren earth come back to life with beautiful blossoms , tet celebrates the end of another year , and new beginnings that bloom like spring flowers .
tet is a time of familial and communal joy and happiness with friends and family coming together to celebrate the momentous occasion and spending quality time together .
with ritualistic cleansing , decorating the houses and other traditions that are associated with tet , another important aspect is new year wishes .
the younger kids greet the elders with new year wishes and receive gifts in return .
if in vietnam for tet , or be it some vietnamese new year celebration that you are to be a part of here are some vietnamese new year wishes that can express your love for your loved ones in vietnamese and send across your best wishes and love .
now that you have learnt of a few vietnamese new year greetings , you can spread the joy of tet around and send vietnamese greetings across .
merry christmas vietnam !
have you ever wondered why a lot of people fuss about christmas ?
this festival which falls at december 25 annually is one of the happiest and most widely-celebrated holidays all over the world , hence the song it 's the most wonderful time of the year .
it 's a season to be jolly , not just for kids but equally so for adults .
christmas trees of different sizes designed glamorously , bright and colourful christmas lights arranged spectacularly , sincerely-picked gifts wrapped meticulously , heart-warming christmas carols played either joyfully or soothingly , and household doors and windows decorated cheerfully are visible signs that christmas is already around the corner .
more important than these material decorations though is the joy that christmas brings to the hearts of those who celebrate it .
it 's usually a time for families to come together , for friends to catch up on each other and for enemies to forgive each other .
generosity is also one of the distinctive sensations during this season as people make an effort to share their blessings by giving gifts to the people they love .
although most countries around the world await to celebrate these holiday season , several nations take it as a regular day , including vietnam .
but where did this festival come from and how did it become so popular that most countries around the world observe and look forward to it ?
well we can trace it back to around 2050 years ago in the country of israel in the middle east , at a time when jewish people were under the rule of the roman empire .
the jews or hebrews are the same people for whom god performed miracles such as parting of the red sea and making the sun stand still in the sky for more than a day , which are popular stories from an ancient book called the bible .
during roman oppression , they were waiting for the realization of a prophecy which says that a saviour will be born to save them .
after hundreds of years of waiting , the prophecy came true when a virgin young girl named mary conceived the son of god , who was to be named jesus .
mary gave birth to him under difficult circumstances , where she had to lay him on a manger , which is where animals eat their food !
his birth is narrated in the bible at luke 2 - years old .
you can easily find from bibegateway.com .
jesus ' name means saviour and it is usually followed by the word christ which means anointed .
according to the bible , jesus christ offers salvation not just for the jews but also for all people around the world who would believe in him .
people who do are called christians .
and that is also where christmas came from .
so that 's the truth behind the colourful , bright and grandiose christmas day !
it is to celebrate the birth of jesus christ , whom god generously gave to humanity because of his love for his creation .
at the end , jesus sacrificed his life when he died on a cross , 2017 years ago , so people can be forgiven from their sins against god .
that is the reason why christmas has a spirit of giving and forgiving .
so after all , it 's not santa claus , snowman , nor rudolf who is the star of christmas , but jesus christ .
hanoi breaks into top 10 fastest growing tourism cities in the world .
jakarta also made it to the top 10 , indicating southeast asia 's rising significance as a key travel hub .
hanoi has been ranked seventh on a new list of the world 's fastest-growing tourism cities , making a marked improvement from last year 's index .
the global destinations cities index 2017 produced by the us based payment technology company mastercard said foreign arrivals to hanoi grew 16,4 percent between 2009 and 2016 , after osaka , chengdu , colombo , abu dhabi , jakarta and tokyo .
jakarta and hanoi 's arrival in the top 10 point to southeast asia 's rising significance as a key travel hub , the report said .
in the previous edition of the report , which measured arrivals growth between 2009 and 2015 , hanoi ranked 13th , while indonesia 's capital jakarta came in 11th .
the survey , which ranked 132 cities , found that asia-pacific is leading global tourism by dominating visitor arrivals and revenue , raking in $ 91,16 billion in 2016 , compared to $ 74,74 billion for europe and $ 55,02 billion for north america .
the region is home to half of the world 's top 10 most visited cities .
bangkok , seoul , singapore , kuala lumpur and tokyo .
hanoi was named the cheapest travel destination by tripadvisor travelers between 2014 and 2016 .
the travel site estimated last year that a three-night holiday for two in hanoi cost only $ 494 , nearly four times less than new york , the most expensive travel destination in the ranking .
in 2015 , the visual social network pinterest ranked the vietnamese capital the third most-pinned location of all time , while lonely planet named the city 's old quarter a once in a lifetime experience .
international arrivals to hanoi in 2016 increased 23 percent to more than four million from the previous year .
the number reached 3,5 million in the first nine months of this year , up 24 percent from a year ago , according to the city 's statistics office .
european language festival to be held in vietnam .
a european language festival will take place in hanoi on october 21 under the theme 'internationalisation .
challenges and opportunities for school in vietnam ' .
the festival provides a special opportunity for teachers and lecturers at schools and universities as well as the public to get an insight into european linguistic and cultural diversity .
representatives of the six organising eunic institutions and the ministry of education and training will highlight opportunities and challenges for schools in vietnam to enhance international contact in a morning conference .
the session provides a fantastic opportunity for up to 120 experts on teaching foreign languages , lecturers and teachers to listen to talks by international speakers .
the representatives , lecturers and teachers will also present and discuss their experience .
in the afternoon , european day of languages will open to anyone interested in european languages .
students , parents and anyone interested in languages and culture will be able to learn new languages in classrooms through games .
trial classes will be offered to enable participants to learn some words in english , french , german , italian and spanish .
no registration is required for the afternoon portion of the festival , with entrance to all events free .
the event is held annually by the european union national institutes of culture ( eunic ) .
how to eat healthy on a trip .
when you 're on vacation , the temptations to overdo the eating and drinking are everywhere , said the new york-based nutritionist joy bauer .
after all , the specialties of your destination , the buffet breakfast at your hotel and treats are always at the ready .
but ms. bauer said that a sensible diet does n't have to and should n't fall by the wayside when on vacation .
overindulging will leave you feeling sluggish and likely with a few extra pounds , but if you know how to eat smartly , you can still eat enjoyably .
below , ms. bauer 's tips on eating healthfully , yet pleasurably , on the next getaway .
travel with food .
as a frequent traveler herself , ms. bauer never leaves home without a stash of healthy snacks and advised other travelers to do the same .
when you have food handy that you like eating , you 're far less likely to grab something unhealthy , she said .
options include whole fruit such as apples , nuts already portioned in quarter-cup serving sizes , pumpkin seeds and roasted edamame .
( or , consider ms. bauer 's line of granola bites , called nourish . ) .
if you 're traveling by car , ms. bauer suggested taking a small cooler along filled with mess-free foods like hard-boiled eggs , string cheese and nut butter , or turkey sandwiches .
fast food can be healthy .
fast-food restaurants abound at airports and at highway rest stops , and ms. bauer said that they 're not off-limits so long as you order the right foods .
choose a grilled chicken sandwich with lettuce and tomato ( hold the mayo ) and a side salad .
if you enjoy hamburgers , order a single patty , and top it with extra lettuce and tomatoes .
ca n't resist french fries ?
order the smallest size , and eat half .
ms. bauer also said that several fast-food chains offer fruit-topped oatmeal and yogurt parfaits that make for satisfying and tasty snacks .
when in rome , splurge strategically .
trying the local cuisine , ms. bauer said , is a pleasurable part of any vacation .
you can and should let yourself enjoy one 'cheat ' food each day , but be selective and pick something that is unique to that destination , she said .
that could mean veal milanese in milan , a lobster roll in maine , a chocolate croissant in france and pad thai in thailand .
stick to a reasonable portion of whatever you choose , and savor every bite .
watch those sips .
drinks do n't fill you up , and many are packed with sugar and calories .
ms. bauer said that it 's best to skip sweetened iced teas and lemonades throughout the day — seltzer flavored with fruit is an appealing alternative .
when it comes to alcohol , many cocktails , including margaritas , can easily top 500 calories .
drink wine or a light beer instead .
or try a lower-sugar mixed drink such as vodka with club soda and a splash of fruit juice or a gin and tonic .
10 things to do in ho chi minh city .
the top don't-miss activities on a trip to the south vietnamese city .
the whirlwind formally known as saigon is a hot , noisy , dynamic city that rarely sleeps , with a complex history and plenty of culture to soak up .
combine this with the laughably good-value prices of everything from lodgings to lunch , and there 's never been a better time to explore this south vietnamese gem .
here are 10 ways to make the most of a visit .
hit the spa .
ho chi minh city ( hcmc ) is awash with spas , offering the chance to relax and unwind far from the madding crowd while still being slap bang in the city centre .
unlike in the uk , you can easily spend a day pampering yourself without breaking the bank .
jolene spa in district 1 , just round the corner from ben thanh market , charges 250,000vnd for a gel manicure and regular pedicure , or 150,000vnd ( £ 5.20 ) for a full body massage .
get haggling .
the biggest and best of hcmc 's markets is ben thanh ( chobenthanh.org.vn ) .
head over there to grab cheap street food and pick up a range of souvenirs .
there are traditional vietnamese lanterns aplenty , plus colourful fans , scarves , bowls and chopsticks , and , of course , lucky cats .
be sure to negotiate heavily on price – as a tourist you 'll be asked to pay far above the odds unless you barter .
head underground .
an excursion to the infamous cu chi tunnels makes for an eye-opening afternoon .
used by the vietnamese during the war with america , these immense networks of underground tunnels enabled whole villages to stay safe , plus meant vietnamese guerrilla fighters could take the enemy by surprise .
visitors can crawl their way through a 100m stretch of tunnel and watch their tour guide demonstrate with ghoulish pleasure the ingenious traps the vietnamese used to kill or maim us soldiers .
costing from $ 20 for a half-day tour ( 8am-2pm or 1-7pm ) , this trip includes return transfers plus entry to the tunnels ( viator.com ) .
take in a show .
enter into a magical world of wooden puppets diving and splashing across a water stage at the golden dragon water puppet theatre .
this traditional form of vietnamese entertainment includes narration and musical accompaniment from musicians and singers seated at either side of the stage .
there are daily 50-minute performances at 5pm and 6 .
30pm with tickets costing 230,000vnd on the door .
go for a scoot .
hcmc is a city of mopeds – they 're everywhere .
and one of the most enjoyable experiences is hopping onto one , which is by far the best way to see the city .
hiring one is n't massively recommended – there seem to be few rules on the road , with drivers doing random u-turns into oncoming traffic whenever the mood takes them – but you can hire an uber moto instead .
it 's booked exactly the same way as a regular uber , with a 10-minute ride costing around 10,000vnd .
change your caffeine fix .
if there 's one thing the vietnamese have indisputably nailed , it 's coffee .
you can pick up a vietnamese coffee – white or black , hot or cold – in pretty much every hcmc restaurant or café .
why is it so good ?
when served white , it 's made with condensed milk , creating a miracle drink that balances the strength of the drip filter coffee with a rich , sweet finish .
buff up on your history .
a visit to the war remnants museum ( baotangchungtichchientranh.vn ) is a sobering experience – but an important one .
containing exhibits relating to the vietnam war and the first indochina war with the french colonialists , it features photographs , military vehicles , and various weapons .
it 's rare to see the horrors of war displayed so starkly .
graphic photographs depict the effects of the usa 's chemical weapons – agent orange , napalm , and phosphorus bombs .
entry costs 15,000vnd and the museum is open daily from 7.30 a.m - 6 p.m .
eat with locals .
com nieu sai gon ( comnieusaigon.com.vn ) in district 3 dishes up a range of great-value vietnamese dishes .
it 's slightly under the radar for tourists , so do n't be surprised if the english is n't too good , or if they do n't have everything listed on the insanely long menu .
just go with it – whatever they bring you will be delicious .
a decent piece of sea bass in chilli sauce with a side of steamed rice costs 150,000vnd .
get high .
for unrivalled views of the city , head to bitexco financial tower , otherwise known as the saigon skydeck ( bitexcofinancialtower.com ) , in district 1 .
opt to enjoy the 360 degree views at 230m from the bar on the 50th floor – it 's free , and you can grab a drink for roughly the same price as entry to the skydeck .
cocktails start from 220,000vnd or a smoothie costs 169,000vnd .
experience a touch of paris .
perhaps the most stand-out of the many traces left by french colonialists in the 1880s is the magnificent notre dame cathedral ( giothanhle.net/gio-le/nha-tho-duc-ba-sai-gon ) .
trying to recreate the feel of the cathedral of the same name in paris , builders used french bricks and constructed huge romanesque bell towers .
have a gander any time from 5.30 a.m - 5 p.m daily .
i would like to talk about the time i had to get out of my comfort zone to join an innovation challenge contest which made me think out of the box and work flat out to become the runner up .
you should say .
what the situation was .
why you needed to use imagination .
what the difficulties were .
and explain how you felt about it .
i would like to talk about the time i had to get out of my comfort zone to join an innovation challenge contest which made me think out of the box and work flat out to become the runner up .
this annual contest is open to all undergraduates and post graduates around the world .
each year this contest draws the attention of more than people so it was really competitive and challenging for me .
therefore , when i was awarded the runner up prize , i was deliriously happy and extraordinarily excited .
the goal of the challenge was to recognize individuals and organizations that were working on internet based solutions to promote education and economic empowerment in countries throughout the world .
therefore , it really required creativity and imagination from each team joining the contest .
i had to buckle down and brainstorm ideas for the challenge until i came up with the best one to be accepted for consequent rounds .
at the end of the day , my team and i had really gone extra miles to become the runners up and it was really an unforgettable experience to me .
after all , i can take pride in myself for all the thing i achieved with my imagination and creativity .
im not a great swimmer in any sense but swimming is like my religion .
you should say .
what kind of sport that is who you play it with where you play it and explain why you think doing this is healthy .
im not a great swimmer in any sense but swimming is like my religion .
it is truly refreshing and literally , washes away every disturbing thought i have whenever i dive into cold water .
no matter how tight my schedule may get , i usually pay at least one visit to a local swimming pool to work myself up and get rejuvenated .
sometimes i have a partner or two , who have been my best friends since high school .
we live in the same neighborhood so its not too stressful when we have to set a schedule for our swimming session .
we carpool more often than not and it takes us roughly minutes to get to the local recreation center where it provides the locals with a variety of facilities for training purpose such as gym class , stadium , swimming pool , tennis court and so on , which is extremely convenient for those who practice more than one activity .
the only thing better then swimming itself is swimming with your besties , which is one of hundreds of things i love about my weekly ritual .
hardly do we have time to meet each other during week days as were all up to our neck at work and totally stressed out .
therefore , having such a healthy way to catch up with my friends and recharge battery after an exhausting week never sounds better .
just like other any sports , swimming helps maintain your health , keep you fit as well as build your endurance .
however , unlike others , its a very relaxing and peaceful form of exercise , you dont even sweat for hours a supreme advantage .
therefore , if youre looking for a kind of sport that brings you comfort and relaxation , swimming should be your first choice .
there is a thing that troubles me more often than not when living in vietnam is the majority of people are riding motorbikes rather than cars .
as a result , most people dont know how to drive a car , i included , which also itches me since i have always wanted to take a road trip across the country .
a road trip by car from the south to the north of my country would be tough and adventurous because hundreds of marvelous destinations are awaiting to be explored .
however , it is worth taking risks and stepping out of your comfort zone to truly experience what life has to offer when your legs can still carry you rather than to regret in your later life .
if you wan na go fast , go alone .
if you wan na go far , go together .
it might be fun if you were a lone traveler and didnt enjoy getting lagged behind your schedule .
im grateful to have such a supportive and caring family who are always there for me no matter what .
we have members in the house thats always full of laughter .
my parents , my two sisters and me .
even though i love them all to the moon and back , my younger sister , jade , is the one thats closest to me .
jade is seven years younger than me , which might create some sense of generation gap , yet , we still get along well , or at least most of the time .
she is in high school now and has a dream of becoming a doctor one day .
learning a second language not only adds up your skills but also offers enormous benefits for your brain and personal growth .
additionally , being bilingual or multilingual expands your knowledge across the countrys border and provides you easy access to the understanding of other cultures .
therefore , beside english , spanish sits high in my must learn list due to its wide application and beautiful culture .
needless to say , spanish is one of the most spoken languages in the world and one of the six official languages used in united nations conferences and statements .
spanish is spoken in most countries in south and central america and in the us , over million people are using spanish either as their mother tongue or second language .
over the course of my life , i have been watching a lot of television programs , ranging from scientific to reality shows .
however , the tv program that i am addicted to is the apprentice on nbc channel .
the show airs for about minutes , twice a week .
the show is hosted by donald trump , one of the richest and most powerful billionaires in the world .
there are often people in each episode and all the participants are young , dynamic , enthusiastic , and talented people from all walks of life .
lately , i havent had much time to go out for a movie since ive been up to my eyeballs in reports and presentations .
hence , to relax and boost my mood , i rented some good old movies and made myself some healthy snacks for late night treat .
silver linings playbook is one of my all time favorites and ive lost count how many times i replayed it .
the last time i watched it was a week ago on saturday night .
oscar nominated movies were usually not my taste due to their complexity and lack of entertainment but silver linings playbook was an exception .
ive always preferred something a little sentimental , light hearted , yet meaningful and this movie had it all .
silver linings playbook was an adaptation from the novel written by matthew quick , starring two incredibly talented actors bradley cooper and jennifer lawrence .
this romantic comedy movie was about two wounded souls who once again found beauty in the most unexpected place .
pat bradley , a former teacher , was just released from a mental institution and trying to reconcile with his cheated wife despite his familys protest .
he met tiffany jennifer , a woman with problems of her own , and things got complicated .
two people bearing hidden scars with no hope in the future finally had lights in their lives again .
the movie was not heavy at all but extremely entertaining with some laugh out loud moments .
no matter how many times ive watched it , i still got emotional every time i replayed it .
the underlying message was also a shout out to anyone who believe they have hit rock bottom .
when one door closes , another door opens .
therefore , keep moving forward and dont lose hope .
if anyone run out of movies to watch , i highly recommend silver linings playbook as a change of appetite .
it was almost years since i competed in an english speaking contest , standing on a big stage in front of a hundred strong crowd to deliver one of the best speeches ive ever given with the support of my friends .
that was something you can never forget in your whole life and the most magnificent moment , bar none , of my high school highlights .
never had it crossed my mind that one day i would be on stage talking about the thing i treasured most in my life my family and friends or just be qualified enough to represent the entire school compete at such competition .
if it hadnt been for my english teachers constant encouragement , i wouldn thave participated in the contest in the first place .
students were free to choose their topics and were asked to present it in front of a panel of judges and audience .
there are many kinds of sports which people like learning these days , such as baseball , basketball , volleyball , and cricket but i would like to learn football which is so called the king of sports .
football is the popular kind of sports in almost all countries in the world .
basically , it is a collective game with teams and each team has players .
the main purpose is that players try to keep their goal safe and kick the ball to the net of their opponents .
scores are recorded and the winner is the team having higher scores .
initially , i think i can start off by pointing out something about who this person is .
actually , i know quite a lot people who are bilingual , however id like to share about my best friend who is fluent in japanese .
her name is nguyen and she is currently working in a japanese corporate .
in fact , she is the one who has inspired me a lot to learn the second language .
the factor that makes her unique to me is the fact that despite acquiring japanese on her own , she managed to become excellent at it with gorgeous intonation like a native speaker .
the chief reason encouraging her to learn this language is indeed quite simple .
when she was in university , she fell in love with a japanese person and gradually became addicted to this countrys culture and language .
therefore , she exerted herself and put a lot of effort in japanese with the first target of being able to communicate with her boyfriend in his mother tongue .
time went by and her passion for this language grew so strong that she committed herself to conquer it , no matter how hard it is when it comes to the matter of self study .
however at the end of the day , she achieved it with flying colors and lots of opportunities come to her after graduation from university .
it is my friend who gives me a precious lesson in life .
do the thing you are truly passionate about and you will rock it .
this thesis paper is of great importance to me because it will decide whether i can get through the master course with flying colors or not .
i was also a procrastinator who always waits until the last minute to do anything which made me fall behind my schedule for my thesis paper submission .
moreover , the thesis was really complex and challenging , therefore , i had tons of tasks waiting for me to be carried out such as collecting data for the report in the thesis , doing group discussions to brainstorm good ideas for the thesis and surfing high and low to collect information online as references for the thesis .
i did not feel good about it so it was particularly stressful to me .
however , i knew that i had to stay motivated and productive to get through this hard time .
i worked flat out and put a lot of time and effort into it to meet tight deadlines and get the best results for the thesis paper .
for the sake of that , i got straight a in my thesis , continued my job and did well in my term final .
i had to sacrifice a lot and maintain a strict routine and stop lots of my other activities that i usually do .
at the end of the day , it was well worth the effort and time !
actually in my life , i have performed many different transactions which give me both sense of satisfaction and discontent .
however if i have to pick out one item that really let me down , i would name the birthday cake that i bought for my sister years ago .
now with reference to why i was not content with is , i suppose there was a combination of reasons here .
one of them was its exorbitant price .
on my sisters birthday , i had an emergency at work and it took me almost all day till pm to resolve it .
although it cost me an arm and a leg to buy the cake , i still decided to take it since it was the only bakery shop stayed open that late .
everything would be fine if it tasted good but unfortunately the cake was of terrible quality .
it tasted way too sweet and was not appetizing at all .
thus , i was kind of regretful , choosing to purchase the cake instead of any other present for my sister .
actually as i had to splash out on the cake and received almost nothing back , i tended be more careful to make really sensible buying decision from that on .
i suppose i should begin by highlighting the point of where this country is .
in actual fact , the countries that i have visited so far can be counted on the fingers of one hand .
among those , india is the one that truly amazed me by many factors .
india has a very long history .
the country is very big and has the second largest population in the world .
i guess this is why there are so much to see .
for me , one of the most interesting places in india is the ganges river , which is well known as the longest and holiest river in india .
while most rivers around the world are for recreation or sports , the ganges has many other functions .
as the indians believe , that the river is holy , people come here to pray and wash themselves in its water .
in addition , the river also has thousands of people who wash their clothes by beating them on rocks .
the other thing that often impresses tourist is the unique architect of hindu temples all over india and visitors can enter at any time .
the temples are usually immense and have antique statutes that are thousands of years old .
visitors are also welcome to eat and sleep in the temples at night if they have no place to go .
after all , i have to say that paying this beautiful country the second visit in future is one of the prioritized items on my bucket list .
regarding the fact that i am crazy about exploring the spaces , i have to say if i was a billionaire and had an enormous amount of money , i would probably buy a spaceship for my own exploration adventures .
the main reason accounting for this intention is that ever since i was a kid , i have always held a strong yearning for becoming an astronaut .
therefore , having my own personal spacecraft would give me the opportunity to fulfill my childhoods dream .
there is a myriad of purposes for my spacecraft , one of them is that i would use my spacecraft to visit other planets in the outer space and maybe one day i could find a habitable place for people .
this certainly would be a great discovery for human being especially when the earth is currently flooded by trash and contaminants .
i guess i could begin by saying something about what this thing is .
in fact , i am not that meticulous and patient therefore the things that i have created by myself can be counted on the fingers of one hand .
however one thing that made me really proud of is the kite that i made when i was years old .
in fact , it was also the very first thing that i created all the parts from scratch .
another part worth mentioning is the making process of this toy .
well , my kite had the shape of a diamond and was made mainly of paper .
considering the fact that i had never done anything like this before , its not astonishing to say that i spent almost three days in a row to complete just the fundamental parts .
the first step was attaching paper to a bamboo frame .
although this sounds quite simple , it was absolutely not as easy as a piece of cake since i had to keep the balance for the kite .
after that , it came to the issue of assembling lots of colorful light weight pieces in order to make the tail .
the thorny part was ensuring the flying ability of the kite even when it was attached with a long tail .
until now , i still remember the gorgeous feeling when i completed the toy which was considered as a treasure back then .
i guess this way mainly because it gave me a sense on own achievement and pride whenever i played with it or talked about it to my friends .
in my childhood , the whole world was just as simple and funny as a party to be thrown like a famous singer said .
i have many toys in my childhood and at different stages , i prefer different toys .
teddy bear is the most special one to me and i still keep it at my closet until now .
i guess that all kids love a furry friend and so did i .
however , what made the bear really special to me was that this was a gift from my father on an occasion of my th birthday .
everything about it was so different from other stuffed bears .
i have a long desire to learn chinese as a second foreign language , but even with my passion , i still have not achieved it yet .
this passion grew in me just few years ago when i watched a very inspiring movie about chinese history and culture .
then i decided that i had to learn chinese in order to explore more about this incredible nation .
besides , knowing more than one language is very beneficial to not only my study but also my future career path .
therefore , in order to achieve my target , i will register for a chinese course for beginners , which is held times a week .
i also intend to download many apps on my phone with the aim to study at home by myself .
i have drawn my own schedule so that i can make time for self study , at least hour per day .
as currently , i have a full time job , i am so busy that there are days when i have to work overtime or travel faraway to meet clients .
moreover , after a tiring day , i often feel deadly tired and find it hard to concentrate on studying at home .
however , just thinking about the moments when i can speak chinese gives me a sense of satisfaction , which encourages me to study harder and better .
thus , i always remind myself that i have to keep up with my schedule at any cost if i want to make my dream come true .
there are numerous happy events in my life that i can recall and among them , i would like to talk about the time when my family gathered to make chung cake for the new year holiday .
the new year is a very special traditional holiday in my country .
it was probably my most favorite holiday when i was a small girl as my family had a lot of activities to celebrate this occasion .
among them , making the chung cake made me excited the most .
the chung cake is made of glutinous rice , green beans and fat pork , wrapped in banana leaves in the shape of a square .
i often played with my older brother when my parents prepared the ingredients for the cake .
and then , my father lit a small fire to boil the cake overnight .
it was perhaps the only time of the year when i was allowed to stay up late .
while my family was sitting around the warm fire , my grandmother would tell the old legendary story about the chung cake to commemorate the filial affection of one prince to his father and remind us of the long lasting tradition of our country .
in recent years , my family has not had enough time for making the chung cake on our own .
however , to me , a ready made cake that we buy from a local market cant bring the special feeling and replace the taste of a chung cake from my childhood .
i hope that my family can continue our tradition in the coming years .
im going to describe a high rise building in my neighborhood .
its called paradise green city , located in canada .
unlike other modern blocks , which are usually huge glass towers , the building is painted yellow , although its named green city .
the structure of green city is not dissimilar to that of most buildings in canada nowadays , with the bottom half used as a shopping center and the top half occupied by apartments .
one feature that makes the building unique is that its trade center offers canadian products only , with a view to promoting domestic products to people and also to supporting national manufacturers .
at the entrance of the building , if you look to the right , you can easily find a store named masterchef bread , which serves traditional bread to people who just do not have enough time to go inside , so they line up waiting to pay .
in spite of its prime location , however , paradise green city offers a reasonable price for its apartments , which are affordable for many middle income families .
from the building , we can enjoy the breathtaking scenery .
so , if you are planning to find a place with a beautiful and peaceful view , or simply want to buy something traditional , paradise green city may be a good choice .
dislike what i dont like about paradise green city , however , is that its design is neither eye catching nor original .
in fact , i personally find that it resembles abc , a modern building nearby .
moreover , the paint color doesnt match its modern structures , which makes the building somehow old fashioned .
and the quality , as well as diversity of products on sale do not meet the expectations of most customers .
so , i guess its the reason why the building doesnt attract as much attention from the public as expected .
well , i m really into mobile apps so i set up at least helpful apps on my smartphone like meditation , tripadvisor , ted , lumosity , dulingo , wunderlist .
but maybe money lover is the most useful one and at the top of my list .
let me tell you about it in more detail .
the symbol of the app is a very cute piggy bank which impresses me a lot at the first sight .
there are many expenses for clothes , food , cosmetics divided so that at the end of the month , i can know exactly what cost me a bomb , what are within my budget to tighten the belt next month .
today i m going to share with you a short vacation that left me a profound impression .
it was a trip to the hometown of one of my classmates at university .
on arriving at the countryside , which is quite secluded from the hustle and bustle of the city life , we were greatly impressed by the picturesque landscapes there .
the atmosphere was refreshing and the air is unpolluted unlike in the city where many of us were living in .
my friend acted as a tour guide as he was well accustomed to the local lifestyles and tourist attractions there .
we took the motorbikes to tour the city land stopped at some street vendors to taste the local cuisine , which i personally found tasty and delicate .
after doing the sights , we gathered in the evening for some small games and gossip about our study and our future career path .
when it comes to an old thing i keep in my family , i want to talk about the transformer that i got from my parents on my th birthday .
on that day , my parents bought me a transformer as a birthday gift .
when i opened the gift box , i was really astonished by what i was seeing in front of me .
it was an awesome transformer that i had been dreaming about for ages .
the moment i saw this transformer , i fell in love with it .
today i m going to share with you about a craft work that a bunch of high school buddies and i took part in .
it was prior to mid autumn festival that our form teacher made a decision to hold a small competition among our classmates .
the theme was to design the most attractive and meaningful lantern .
my group decided on creating a spinning lantern while other groups chose much simpler shapes like butterflies , fish and stars .
as a matter of fact , ours was a lantern which spins around when a candle is placed inside , which symbolizes the seasonal spinning of the earth around the sun .
staying in good shape is everyones concern and i am no exception .
to be honest , i have been so caught up in my study since i entered university that i have a problem in organizing my daily routine .
however , i have been participating in a yoga class for about years , which takes me only hour a day , to try to lead a healthy lifestyle .
unlike dancing or running , yoga definitely involves stretching actions .
you might look at yoga and think that it is light and easy but it is more demanding than it appears .
digital technology has reshaped the world in more than one way during the last decade .
as a result , a new way of living and working has also prevailed among people , especially millennials .
if youve heard about digital nomad a work from anywhere kind of employee , you already know how a specific digital skill set can improve and simplify your life , which is why i take great interest in and set photoshop one of the most powerful graphic design tool to be my next challenge to conquer .
being known as an incredible image editing program , photoshop has earned its reputation for good reasons .
created and maintained by adobe , photoshop provides users with a complete and advanced tool set to maximize their creativity .
it can do anything regarding online media , for example , creating images , resizing , color correction and even editing video .
fancy as it sounds , to acquire photoshop skill would be a painstaking process .
due to complex features and even more complex applications , photoshop is not for those without patience and constant practice .
furthermore , the program usually gets upgraded with more usages , therefore , you would have to keep learning to avoid being obsolete .
graphic design is a critical skill in this digital era which affords anyone flexibility as well as attractive income .
therefore , it would definitely be on top of my must learn skill in the near future .
actually , i have already scheduled my timetable and squeeze in some hours for photoshop class next month and i hope it would go as well as it could be .
i love listening to music , so i like a multitude of songs .
however , one of my favorite songs that i want to talk about today is hall of fame by the script and william .
this song was written for the olympic games .
when it came out , it quickly became a hit on every single music chart throughout the world , not just because of its catchy melody , but also for its meaningful lyrics .
the song talks about how each of us can be a champion or anything we want to be as long as we dedicate our time and efforts to doing what we are passionate about .
today , im going to share with you an interesting public place where i really enjoy going to hang out with my close friends in my spare time , which is a lovely caf named x .
it is situated at y a small quiet lane near my university in the centre of my hometown .
the coffee house is decorated in an old , traditional french style , with a lot of paintings on the wall , and it attracts a lot of foreign customers .
as a fulltime student , i have been so caught in my studies , therefore , i just take a day off to go there on weekends after a long stressful week .
there are many live music events taking place there performed by acoustic guitarists , so i often check them out on the internet and come with my friends .
because this type of music is my kind of thing , i am in my element just humming the tune of the songs and relaxing in a comfy chair to enjoy myself .
the fast food tastes quite savoury and especially the coffee in x is always irresistibly delicious .
that might be the reason why it was ranked among the top best coffee shops in .
what i really love is how cozy the atmosphere is , something which i have not found in any other coffee shop yet .
whenever thing go wrong , i often go there as a hideaway to escape from all the pressures and order a cup of coffee to relieve my stress .
it always works wonders .
i find it extremely therapeutic and soothing .
therefore , its more than likely that i will still keep coming back to it as my favourite place in the near future .
there is no doubt that online source is essential for everyone nowadays .
a vast amount of information is instantly updated every second to meet our needs .
for me , in particular , id like to check the website called food.com almost everyday .
what i love about the website is a wide variation of food stores is introduced in detail , including the price , the food available , the parking area and the service offered .
posts can also be varied in terms of food , by which the reviewer recommends their top five stores selling it .
in terms of design concepts , by which people can choose their favorite surrounding environment or those young photographers can also come to practice and in terms of specific locations .
of course different person has different taste , i also can to go through the comments below or save many posts for references .
what is more , the websites provides delivery service , which is a huge benefit for those who are living too far away from the store .
for those reasons listed , food.com is definitely one of the websites id love to visit daily .
today , im gon na share with you a wedding of my friend that i attended .
last month , i received a wedding invitation from my old friend from primary school .
the wedding was held at the beginning of april .
we have been close to each other for over years , therefore , i definitely wanted to attend at all costs , due to the fact that we hadnt had a chance to get together for ages .
her wedding ceremony took place at the sum villa , located near my home in the heart of my city .
well , im a great fan of barbecues and i would like to talk about the first time i tried some typical barbecue food .
this happened when i was years old .
my familiy went out to have dinner to celebrate my younger sisters birthday .
after putting so much thought into some new savoury food to have for our meal , we decided to go to a bbq restaurant on x street .
we ordered four dishes with three different tastes .
well , the most difficult decision ive ever made was whether or not i should study abroad next year .
in the recent couple of years , theres this growing tendency among high school graduates to embark on a study abroad program .
ive always wanted to do the same , because its a good opportunity to see the world , to experience different styles education , and to improve my language skills .
and for a girl who has never been far away from home , studying in a foreign country might bring out my independent nature .
but i need to give it some careful thought before i could make the decision .
id like to talk about the capital city of china , beijing , which is famous for its places of interest like the the great wall , and also some modern tourist attractions .
but these years , i believe it has become well known for its heavy air pollution .
i dont remember since when high levels of air pollution have become commonplace in beijing , especially during winter months when temperatures drop and more coal is burned when heating systems are switched on .
all i can hear from the news every now and then is beijing is hit by hazardous smog again and the municipal government issues yellow smog alerts all the time , and the number of patients who suffer from respiratory disease is on the rise .
i guess thats why i dont have too much affection for this city .
but a few months ago , my best friend was getting married in beijing and i was asked to be her bridesmaid .
so i had to fly there to attend her wedding .
after i landed at the airport , i just had this weird feeling in my throat and i started to cough .
i noticed that most people around me were wearing masks , i just regret why i didnt get one before i went there .
when i looked out of the window , i could see the city was covered in a dense layer of smog , and some of the skyscrapers were barely visible .
i remember i was wearing a white blouse , but by the time i got to my hotel , the collar was dirty , it was only like hours ?
so you see , the pollution was that serious .
honestly ive no idea why people still flock to this city to make a living at the cost of their health .
ok then , well firstly id just like to mention that im quite lucky because my parents have always bought stuff for me , so i seldom buy something by myself .
but one occasion that i did save up to buy something myself was when i got my ipad , which really made me happy and thats what id like to talk about .
i think it took me about four or five months to save up for it , and i basically did it by cutting back on other things , you know , like eating out and buying clothes .
at that time , i study in a college , i mean , i dont have a job , unfortunately , so the only money i receive is my living allowance which my parents give me every month , and thats what i had to use to pay for it .
anyway , regarding why i wanted an ipad , well i suppose the main reason was that im a big apple fan .
the senior person whom i really respect and like is my grandmother .
from my childhood she has been a caring person for me .
still she is a good friend of mine whom i share many things .
she is a benevolent and good person who possesses a good heart .
she tries to help others with her highest efforts .
i know her from my childhood as she lives with us and we have a lot of happy memories together .
she is a successful mother of people including my father .
she has devoted all her life for her kids and made them educated .
she possesses a nice and charming personality that illuminate people around her .
i love and respect her for many different reasons .
the most important reason is because of her unconditional love and affection for me .
she is a good mentor who can show me positive ways and guide me in my depressed time .
talking to her is a soothing experience and the story she tells is always attractive and full of morality .
i have learned many positive attitudes and good thinking from her .
for all those reasons and a strong bonding between us , i respect and admire her very much .
i have to admit that i know very little about the technical aspects of camera and to be honest i take photos from my own preference rather than maintaining aspects a professional photographer would do .
though the photo was not professionally shot , it is still the most treasured photo i could have .
i found there was a bat nest in my balcony recently , and one night i happened to see they flew across the patio under our apartment and hover in the sky .
i was shocked , because it was dark outside but they knew exactly where to go without mistakes .
moreover , they went out only at night .
i thought bats are interesting not because they can fly in the dark since i know they are nocturnal animals .
i always think the ability which aids bats fly and prey capture is their unusual eye sight , like another nocturnal animal , owls .
but the truth is because of their echolocation .
bat echolocation is a perceptual system where ultrasonic sounds are emitted specifically to produce echoes .
by comparing the outgoing pulse with the returning echoes the brain and auditory nervous system can produce detailed images of the bat s surroundings .
this allows bats to detect , localize and even classify their prey in complete darkness .
the meal i really enjoyed with my friends was the one when we graduated from high school three years ago .
we had it in july , when we just graduated .
one of my best friends monica organized it .
she reserved our favourite restaurant which was just two blocks away from our school .
restaurant served traditional chinese food and we all enjoyed it so much .
it just happened on last year of my birthday .
my sister bought me a strapless dress as a present .
i felt surprised because this dress is not my taste .
my sister said she bought it for me because she has never seen i wore any this kind of dress .
she told me , girls should have to care your appearance and strapless dress is one of the most vital items in my wardrobe .
the dress comes from a famous luxury brand and i know lots of my friends dream for it .
you know , the dress is black with understated decoration on the hemline .
although i love this gorgeous dream , it could be worn only on formal occasions .
so i wore this dress in my graduation ceremony party .
a lot of my classmates were fascinated by it and came to ask me where they could buy it .
you know , as i said i had never dressed like that before .
but after that time , i became more confident and changed my dressing style .
id like to talk about the time when my travel plan got shattered by the horrible weather .
last summer vacation , my parents took me to sanya , which is a coastal city in the south of china where there s gorgeous views and exciting entertainment facilities .
we planned a wonderful vacation during which we could try palatable seafood , play exhilarating water sports , or just lie on the beach doing nothing , so as you can imagine , for a girl who has been living far away from the sea , i was pretty thrilled about that trip , but to my great disappointment , there happened to be a typhoon just the day i arrived there , which totally ruined my plan .
it rained heavily and it was unbelievably windy , i couldn teven step outside , otherwise i would get completely soaked , plus , it was pretty dangerous , you know , with the gale and all .
the typhoon lasted for many days , and it didn tgo away until the day i left .
i bought lots of colorful dresses that are designed to wear on the beach but sadly i didn thave the chance to put them on .
i thought i could take quite a few stunning pictures that i could post on the social networking websites where i can get a lot of likes , you know .
however , i just ended up staying in the boring hotel , complaining about the unexpected weather , which pathetically became my plan b .
so i felt that the money i spent on my flight tickets and the hotel just went down the drain .
it was literally the worst travel experience ever .
it just happened in last month .
my friends and i decided to go travelling to somewhere during the vacation .
finally , we chose korea as our destination .
as none of us can speak korean and in order to avoid any uncertainties may occur during the trip , we think joining a travel group may be the best choice for us .
so we consulted a local travel agency and made the payment immediately .
the travel agency promised that they would pick us up on time at seoul airport when we arrived there .
however , when we arrived in seoul and waited for over hour , no one showed up .
by nature , i m a forgiving person and hardly take mistakes seriously because i think anyone can make blunders sometimes really .
but waiting for such a long time made me feel helpless and annoyed .
i called back to the travel agency and after an hour of busy signals , i finally got through .
the staff who answered my phone explained to us that it was his fault that he forgot to type our names on this travel group list and he would try his best to solve the problem .
finally , the company arranged another car to pick us up and we got part of refund as well when we came back to hongkong .
he also sent us a long email to show the apology to us for his mistake .
my gut instinct told me that the apology seemed genuine and sincere , and i should try to accept the apology and then i acted on that acceptance by replying his email to show my appreciation for his attempts and my willing to recommend their tours to other friends who want to visit korea .
admittedly , for the past few months , i havent been reading as much as i should because of my new projects at work .
its a shame , because reading is , without a doubt , the best way to learn as well as to relax .
the last book that i read , a still forest pool , is also the one that has had the most significant impact on me .
basically , a still forest pool is a book about meditation written by ajahn chah , a buddhist master in thailand .
ajahn had spent years meditating in forest monasteries , which are not as easy to be found as they were several decades ago .
being among the most influential and respected teacher of buddhism in his own country , he has been known as a man of great wisdom who people seek advice from .
a still forest pool is such a remarkable book which reflects the authors simple yet powerful message about buddhist practice of everyday mindfulness .
not only does it describe the importance of staying fully awake in everyday life , but it also shows people how to start living mindfully .
the book has profound insights , especially for the west , where buddhism has recently become more popular .
this is definitely the most interesting book that i have ever read .
it helps me realize how important it is to live fully in the present instead of the past or the future .
i would recommend it to everyone who is in search for inspiration , motivation or simply a change in attitude in order to live more meaningfully .
last summer i saw the news on the net which is very interesting and encourage .
in my hometown surrounded with some rural area where is very poor .
the young men in there are not satisfied with their living condition , so they move to big city looking for good employment opportunities .
but they dont have any skills to earn money , so they study electrical weld in a vocational school .
after they graduate they came to australia by labor service export .
they are hard working , energetic , and gradually received faith form their local employer .
finally they become the australia permanent resident .
the salary they earn is enough to afford their house ownership , and they have extra money monthly send back to china for their parents .
i remember the first time i talk with other people in english happened when i was a middle school student .
one day , my mom heard from her colleagues that there was an english corner that would be held twice a month near our apartment .
so she encouraged me to go for practicing english speaking skills .
actually , i was not willing to do that .
but finally i forced myself toward it because i know it was a good chance to communicate with foreigners .
when i arrived there , a guy came over me with a warm smile .
he started to introduce himself and showed his friendliness .
he spoke english in a fluent and natural way and sounded like a native english speaker .
needless to say , i was a bundle of nerves because i knew my english accent , pronunciation , grammar and vocabulary were not good at all .
surprisingly , he told me that english was not his mother tongue and urged me to speak out .
although we just met for a while , that inspirational man really motivated me to learn english with focus and commitment .
i also got to understand that if you want to learn something new , you must be brave and go towards it .
the first time i used a foreign language was actually pretty funny .
when i was in high school , i attended a summer camp in london , and our school arranged home stay for us in order to help us learn the language and customs .
we were so thrilled about that trip and most of us just couldnt get to sleep on the plane , even though it was an exhausting hour flight .
i remember by the time we arrived at our homestay family , it was early in the morning , but due to the jet lag , everyone was drowsy .
and i drank a lot of coffee on the way , so i needed to use the bathroom badly .
it was a three story house , theres no way i could find the bathroom myself .
so i asked the mother in the family where the bathroom was , but she led me to a room with a bathtub but no toilet .
i was confused .
but i suddenly remembered there are minor language differences between american english and british english , so i thought maybe that was one of them .
i got out of the bathroom and racked my brains trying to find a word better than pee , cause i guess i want to pee .
is not a proper thing to say to a stranger .
but i really couldnt think of anything other than that , so i just went ahead and said excuse me , where can i pee ?
and she took me to a room on the second floor .
so that was the first time that i communicated with a foreigner , and as you can see , it was a little embarrassing .
but once i got to know the language and their customs better , everything just went much smoother .
there are times when people need other s help and lend a helping hand to others as well i am no exception .
last year , i helped my roommate to see a doctor as she could barely walk because of the great pain caused by kidney stone .
actually , it was in a snowy morning , i waked up and saw that she was trembling all over and as white as a sheet in her bed .
she thought it would be alright after a while .
without a second thought , i took all the cash i had and helped her to get dressed , and then we hurried to the nearest hospital in a taxi .
however , after all the difficulties we had in catching a taxi and all the coldness and pain my roommate suffered , the hospital did not put an immediate end to it .
we had to stand in a long line to pay the registration fee first .
what pissed me off was that there were still more patients before us waiting to see the doctor .
later , with prescription in hand , i had to do the whole waiting thing again to pay for and pick up medicine separately .
thankfully , the acute pain of my roommate was greatly relieved by a shot of painkiller .
as we returned to school , i put her to bed and saw her grateful look .
for my part , i think it is quite natural to help people we care about and expect nothing in return .
and i believe a friend in need is a friend indeed .
besides , i do enjoy the feeling of being needed .
it has always been my dream to be a singer ever since i was a child .
when i was a kid i used to be a singing talent .
i would win many singing competitions and represented the school in the choir .
however , because of the pressure of the college entrance exam i had to stop singing and focus on my studies to go to a good university .
the main reason why id like to be a singer is cuz it would allow me to inspire the world .
to be honest , i dont read magazines much these days , but i still read the one called vietraveler , which is a tourism magazine .
the magazine contains all that we need to know in terms of traveling , such as reviews of numerous famous destinations , tips to save money when traveling or what we need to prepare for a trip .
besides , at the back of the magazine , there are a few discount coupons for some particular domestic tours which are run by tourist companies .
always , when a new issue is published , i get it delivered to my house by post .
actually , i have been a subscriber to this magazine for almost years and i fully intend to carry on reading it .
as all the information in it is arranged logically , therefore , i find it quite easy to locate every article that interests me .
in addition , i highly appreciate the quality of the magazines contents .
the attractiveness of the glossy photos and the high standard of journalism are just two of its outstanding features .
as a final point , i would emphasize that i usually depend on this magazine to plan a good trip or suggest one to my friends .
i have visited many places near a river or a sea and i enjoyed the scenic beauty and vast water very much .
i would like to talk about a river i visited years back .
i chose to talk about it because i really enjoyed my visit there .
the name of the river was h ng and it was in hu .
one of our relatives invited us to visit their house and we decide to visit there .
i went there with of my family members including my parents .
after we reach there , i was amazed to notice that our relative s house was near a big river .
this was the first time i visited that relatives and i was very excited about the beauty of the nature there .
after we reach our relative s house , my younger sister told me that she would like to visit the river .
i restrained her by saying that we will all go there in the evening .
in the evening we went near the river and the river was very calm at that moment .
a sweet wind was blowing from the river and the weather was very pleasant .
we sat near the river and had our tea .
that was kind of family picnic .
i had my younger brother , sister , my parents and of our relatives at this place .
since this was the summer season , we felt very comfortable being at the bank of the river .
we noticed many boats were in the river and we planned to rent a boat for an hour .
when we were in the boat , the wind suddenly started blowing heavily .
we quickly came to the high land and left for our relative s house .
ok right then , i had a project i was working on , and while i was in the middle of typing up my documentation , my computer started acting weird .
it froze for a while and so i rebooted .
after minutes , the computer showed a blue screen saying that there were problems and recommended that i reboot the computer again .
after another reboot , everything appeared to be ok .
i continued my work and finished for the day .
i spent two days on this assignment and when i went to retrieve my data the next day to double check my work , my computer wouldn tstart up .
a technician came and found that my hard drive malfunctioned .
i lost all the data and lost two days of work .
i was disappointed and thought i would never trust a computer again , but there was a great lesson to be learned .
i had a couple of warnings and i ignored them .
from then , i practiced being someone who can anticipate problems .
i now think of potential problems ahead of time and pay attention to details along the way .
if i applied this sooner , i would have saved the data on another computer and i wouldn thave lost a couple days of work .
but i can tsay i regret making the mistake because it made me someone who can anticipate problems better .
the big company that i am interested in must be apple .
apple is an american multinational corporation that designs and markets consumer electronics , computer software , and personal computers .
the company s best known hardware products .
as of august , the company operates retail stores in ten countries , and an online store where hardware and software products are sold .
as of may , apple is one of the largest companies in the world and the most valuable technology company in the world , having surpassed microsoft .
apple has established a unique reputation in the consumer electronics industry .
this includes a customer base that is devoted to the company and its brand , particularly in the united states .
i would love to share depression experience with a stranger .
i had depressed feelings for a number of years .
i couldnt find joy in anything , my energy level was low and i was struggling to do basic chores like cleaning and washing .
unfortunately , there was a limited time frame , and i felt those feelings creeping back .
i was able to sleep soundly .
im going to talk about a piece of calligraphy that means a lot to me .
it was quite a few years ago , when i was a senior in high school .
at the time i was preparing for my university entrance exam , feeling worried and nervous all the time .
in order to feel better i went to a place called the temple of literature , the first university of my country , to buy some lucky souvenirs .
the place is situated in the centre of our capital , its architecture typical of the feudal times , looking very distinct from the modern buildings in its surroundings .
a recent situation that made me angry was getting stuck in a traffic jam on the way to meet some friends .
it was last sunday lunchtime , and i didnt expect there to be much traffic .
people dont work on sundays , so the roads arent usually very busy .
everything was going well until suddenly i saw a queue of cars on the road in front of me .
i had no choice but to join the queue and wait to get past whatever was causing the delay .
it turned out that it was caused by some roadworks , and it took me an extra minutes to get past them .
i got ta say that where i come from , which is england , theres no season that i enjoy as much as winter .
now , a typical english winter would probably last to months .
but my absolute favorite parts are the one or two coldest months , normally between december and february .
during these extremely wintry months , the temperature drops below zero , which freezes everything , including my feet .
but still , the best part of it all is the snowing .
honestly i dont think i would love winter that much if it hadnt been for the snow .
i mean that scene when you look out the window and see all those tiny little snowflakes dropping slowly to the ground .
that is just stunning !
also , i always consider myself to be quite romantic .
i have , more than once , pictured having my own wedding celebrated during winter , under the snow .
i mean , how beautiful that would be , right ?
but it is not always nice .
over the last few years weve had periods of quite heavy snowfall , when all the romance that i mentioned turned into extreme weather .
in fact there were times when it snowed so badly that roads had to be blocked and schools had to close .
and thats the part that im not big on about the winter in my country .
i spend a lot of time with my best friend john .
ive known him since primary school where we were in the same class .
we only see each other during our university holidays because we dont study in the same city .
my university is in london but he lives in liverpool .
when we are together we always play lots of sports like football and tennis .
john loves manchester united and he is a very good footballer .
i prefer tennis but i am not as good as my friend .
we also both enjoy playing computer games .
our favourite is probably world of warcraft which many of my friends play too .
as we live in a small town there arent many places to go so we normally hang out at the sports centre or in the big park near my house .
were both big film buffs so we go to the cinema quite often and we get a student discount .
i really like spending time with john , hes such a nice person and very friendly .
i always have a good time when we are together and he never fails to make me laugh .
in fact , i think hes the funniest person i know .
so let me tell you about a skill that took me some time when i was a kid to learn .
for the record , i never had the luxury of having a tutor of any kind , so most of the skills that i have acquired are self taught .
and this one , keyboard typing , is no exception .
but first of all i want to talk a little bit about the inspiration that motivated me to learn how to type .
when i was about , there was a show on tv called hackers .
speaking of a person who moves to a new accommodation , i just think of my friend linda .
her neighbor frequently played his music excessively loud , which rattles the change off her coffee table .
she spoke to him repeatedly and he always turns it down to merely loud .
but then turns it back up within the hour .
she said she couldn tstand her downstairs neighbor any more so she changed her living place .
id like to talk about the nightmare i had the other night .
on the way to a mountain in the dead of winter , i dropped behind the group i was traveling with and got lost .
to make matters worse , it began to rain heavily .
the wind blew hard , and the blasted forest groaned as if in pain .
and so overcast was the sky that night came several hours earlier than usual .
cold and frightened , i was trembling all over .
all i could do was shout for help , but no help was forthcoming .
the night became darker , the wind blew harder , and the rain poured down more heavily .
i ate my last piece of food , a tiny piece of cake .
totally despaired , i was waiting not for miracle but for death .
suddenly , a thunderclap woke me up .
a rainstorm was indeed raging outside , but i was grateful to find that i only had a nightmare .
i still couldnt figure out why i would have that dream , and i certainly wouldnt want it to come true .
its quite hard to say what my favourite movie is because there are quite a few to choose from !
but i would say that the one that made the strongest impression on me is a german film called the lives of others .
this film is set in communist east germany , shortly before the fall of the berlin wall .
at that time , the stasi , the east german secret police , used to spy on all kinds of people .
the two main characters in the film are a playwright called dreyman and a stasi spy called weisler , whose job it is to keep dreyman under hour surveillance .
weisler is supposed to be reporting back to his superiors at the stasi in order to discredit the playwright .
i missed my first job interview two years ago because of my carelessness .
once i lost it , i feel regret for that late even today .
at that time , as a fresh graduate , an interview appointment is valuable .
i applied for unilever as sale executive , one of the best global companies with dynamic working environment and good benefits .
i waited for about two months after attending at the iq written test .
biology is my favorite subject .
thanks for learning biology , i have a deep insight about living life around me from a tiny bacterium to a complex human .
among different organisms , i love to elucidate the intricate mechanisms in plants .
why am i interested in plant biology ?
well , its hard to explain .
plants , even though they are unable to move and speak , they are living things .
in all seriousness , between school and the office where i am working as an intern , i barely have time for entertainment .
though , when i do , i take it seriously .
once or twice , i managed to get out of the city and indulged myself in secluded areas where internet service and its distracting minions like social media and advertising emails ceased to exist .
my latest sweet escape was my trip to phu quoc island last summer .
phu quoc was one of the four deserted , yet beautiful islands located in vietnam due to little exposure to tourism .
we have been bombarded with an array of information every single day .
whether it is newspaper , television or social media like facebook or linkedln , news always has their own way to reach us .
one of the most frequent pieces of news i have encountered these past few days was about echelon vietnam discover asias next dragon .
as an avid facebook user , i scroll down my newsfeeds board practically every minutes to stay abreast of every latest action within my social network .
admittedly , there are some better things i can do but just cant help myself .
im going to tell you about a sweet and romantic period of my life my first boyfriend !
i was at the time and completely smitten in love .
since neither of us worked at the time , we would always make each other gifts for special occasions , such as anniversaries , birthdays , or the holidays .
ill tell you about one gift that ill never forget .
he made me a collage art made with several cut up pictures of all the stages of our friendship and relationship .
he must have gone to a print shop to print out all these pictures that carefully cut them out and made a tasteful wall collage with them .
the special part of the gift was that he formed the letters of our names out of pictures , anna and dave .
i thought this was a really creative way to celebrate our love .
looking back , this gift is a bit corny foolish or not tasteful , but at that time i felt completely blown away really happy and surprised by it .
we had been friends since we were children , so we had a ton of memories together .
furthermore , our relationship was years long !
i liked that he was thoughtful enough to put the effort into this kind of gift .
moreover , i felt really emotional looking at the way he told the story of our friendship that turned into love through photos .
in conclusion , these sort of acts were the key to my heart as a teen girl !
even though people say its quite costly , its meant for the rich , but i would love to play tennis one day .
i knew just a bit about this sport , but its not too hard to estimate the price .
as an amateur , at least i should have a nice nike or adidas which up to now is about usd , not to mention other fancy sportswear like tshirt , shorts and socks .
for equipment , bats , bat bags and also i should never forget safety equipment , sadly , its said that the higher it costs the better , so im gon na give it around usd .
so that would be usd in total .
quite expensive im afraid .
anyway , my dad , who is not only motivated , but also knowledgeable about the sport , would definitely be my go to partner .
i guess the reason why im into this quite expensive sport firstly is because of its intense , intensive practice , intensive competitiveness , for example , which helps increase my patience and focus .
in addition , such independent sport makes me feel rewarded , feel proud because what ive won actually is myself .
for this topic , i would definitely talk about my best guy friend .
probably its his personalities that not only makes me feel so proud to be a friend of his , but also inspires me to improve myself .
the first characteristic that makes my friend special is that hes a typical perfectionist .
in almost any situation that he can come up with the best solution and reasons why its the best .
sometimes i get a bit lost , his amazing analyzing skill indeed helps get me through .
one of my best friends has a year old baby girl .
so every time we went out , she would take her with us .
her little girl is such a witty kid , and she is always full of energy .
as she begins to be aware of the outside world , she asks a lot of questions just to satisfy her curiosity .
it happened one day when we went out shopping .
while her mother and i took turns trying clothes on , she was sitting quietly on the bench .
then she looked at me and her mother and started to express her opinions on our clothes .
the way she talked was so funny that we couldnt stop laughing .
she was so used to playing with her barbie doll .
she suggested we should dress like one of her dolls .
she even taught us how to walk like models because she thought that was pretty .
all the customers who walked in the store noticed her , even the store owner couldnt stop laughing .
at her since she was still a baby girl , but she talked and acted like a grown up .
that was probably the best part of the shopping trip that i will never forget .
as a frequent moviegoer , i watch a multitude of films .
one of the movies im much into is one day , an american romantic drama movie .
it is directed by lone scherfig based on a novel of the same name .
i watched this movie at least three times yet still love to watch again and again .
the movie opens with a short scene of the day after their graduation on july of two main characters , dexter mayhew jim surgess and emma morley anne hathaway .
as a frequent moviegoer , i watch a multitude of films .
one of the movies im much into is one day , an american romantic drama movie .
it is directed by lone scherfig based on a novel of the same name .
i watched this movie at least three times yet still love to watch again and again .
the movie opens with a short scene of the day after their graduation on july of two main characters , dexter mayhew jim surgess and emma morley anne hathaway .
they spent the night together but came up with an agreement to be just friends , and spent the following day together , the th , st. swithins day .
however , they couldnt keep the promise .
they went through different circumstances , troubles , got marriage and lived apart from each other until , emma and dexter finally realized they were a perfect match and got engaged and married .
unfortunately , despite many efforts , they have not yet had kids .
emma had a car accident when she was crossing the street .
dexter became inconsolable and was particularly desolated each year on that day .
the movie ends up with the scene back to when they first met and promised to always be best friends .
this movie usually get me burst into tears no matter how many times ive watched it .
not only was the story itself so miserable but also the actor and actress outperformed the ordinary .
this movie also aimed to encourage people to appreciate the happiness and true love from the ones who have always been there for them .
since i was very small , i have had a special interest in cooking .
so , it is no surprise that , now that i have grown up , i dream of having an oven with rings for cooking on top , which is in very popular use overseas .
in my country , this kind of oven is only sold at big electronic and appliance centers .
different from the normal oven , this one provides more stable and exact temperatures , which is one of the critical factors in baking .
besides , it has four oven top elements , which is highly convenient because it allows you to cook and bake at the same time .
i would like to share with you impressions of a garden that i visited last summer , which was full of colour and interest .
claude monefs house and garden in giverny , france .
as a big fan of monefs paintings , especially the famous water lilies , i had always dreamed of seeing he scene in real life .
so , when some friends suggested a visit last year , i jumped at the chance .
after a journey of about an hour by train from our hotel , we arrived at giverny .
the garden was exactly as he painted , it was a riot of colour , from the peaceful white of the water lilies to the striking reds and oranges which filled some of the flowerbeds .
i would like to describe a person who i had to be friendly to , although i did not really like her .
i think this situation is quite common in our lives , especially when we have to act as part of a team .
a couple of months ago , i was assigned to a team at my workplace in order to tackle a big project .
as part of the team , i had to cooperate closely with this person .
however , we had never really liked each other for several reasons .
today , im going to share with you a place where i usually often go to relax , which is a small caf restaurant near my company my house named abc .
as a full time employee student , i have to go to work school days a week .
therefore , the only time that i can visit this place is on weekends .
i always try to make time for my little trip to abc caf every saturday or sunday .
the coffee house is located on a quiet street with a lot of trees planted on both sides .
additionally , it has a patio with hanging gardens which i like very much .
it makes me feel like i m sitting in a garden of my own .
ive always been interested in different kinds of handcrafted jewelry , such as macrame , beading , and other kinds of knotting and stitching with cord or wire .
so im thinking id like to go into business selling and making that kind of jewelry .
it wouldnt even have to be a big production , just a few people making and selling bracelets , necklaces , and other accessories .
maybe if we become popular and more people start buying our products we could even open a small shop and take special orders .
we could also have classes , where we teach people how to make their own jewelry .
i was thinking that my cousin could help me since she is quite good with her hands .
i think she has some friends who are good at macrame so they could help also .
we could put an ad in the newspaper or on the internet and sell our wares that way .
during holidays wed travel around china and sell our jewelry at famous parks and places that tourists frequent .
wed each just make the things that were best at so that we get a bunch of quality products in as short an amount of time as possible .
the main reason id start a business like this is because its something that i enjoy doing , and i dont think i could work at a job that i dont like .
i would like to tell you about an opportunity that i had to see a white tiger , which is one of the star attractions in singapore zoo , during my last summer vacation .
i was recommended to see this white tiger first due to its rarity and uncommon beauty .
its habitat in the zoo is landscaped to resemble a dense jungle .
i was truly overawed and felt excited at first sight by its gorgeous appearance .
this giant cat has blue eyes , a pink nose , and creamy white fur covered with brown stripes .
as i am interested in photography , i have taken thousands of photos .
however , the most meaningful photograph to me is the big one of my family .
the picture is hung on the wall of my living room and it is the first thing that everyone notices since the moment they walk into my house .
the photograph was taken one year ago on an occasion of summer holiday .
it was the first time that my family enjoyed the summer vacation together .
i would like to invite my friends to a hot pot meal .
i would invite my closest friends , the ones that i hang out with and have the most in common with .
i would of course invite my girlfriend so that she could meet my friends .
that is important to me .
i think my girlfriend should know what i am like when i am with my friends .
i would like to describe a coat my parents gave me as a present on my th birthday .
i must say that it is really smart and exactly to my liking .
the coat is made of cotton only and by a famous clothes brand .
it is a knee length black coat , which was in fashion at that time .
what i like the most is that there are two deep side pockets , so in winter , i always put my hands into those pockets to avoid the cold .
well , im going to talk about a person who is one of my flat mate in australia .
her name is linda .
possibly , she is one of the best friends of mine who lived with me .
first , i would love to talk a little bit about the time and the place where she lived in .
it was in a very freezing sunday night around or degree celsius .
in the very heart of the winter , i mean in july , there was a girl struggling with loads of luggage knocking at the door of my house .
she said hi to everyone in a very humble way .
this is a sort of the scenario of how i got to know her .
there should be a fate between us , i reckon .
what i mean fate here is by accident we got to know each other and we are at the same hometown back in india and we used to live in the same area in india when both of us were going to a university in mumbai .
but we just run across with each other only in australia .
moving onto the next point , i would like to approach the idea of our relationship .
to be honest , we were not in a very good harmony initially because of some misunderstandings and conflicts during the time we lived in under the same roof , shared the rent , bills and time clash .
but gradually , we discovered out that we have a lot of common interests and characteristics .
living with her is quite enjoyable because we could share lots of things together , but did not have to worry about bothering each other in the daily life .
india is rich in culture and tradition .
the tradition i m going to talk about today is saying namastey .
we celebrate this tradition every day , in fact several times a day .
this is our way of greeting each other .
we do it by folding our hands , palms facing each other , fingers pointing towards the ceiling , thumbs pointing towards the chest and this is accompanied by a slight bow .
one of the most useful skills i have learnt since i was a year old child is typing on a keyboard without looking at that , is a special skill .
when i was years old , my father bought me a computer , it was impossible for me to type without looking at the keys .
it took longer hours for me to type a single page by searching the letters on the keys .
when i started to type , it appeared to me that the letters should be placed on the keyboard alphabetically for better use .
but gradually i learnt that this way is better than the alphabetical letters .
basically i learnt the skill at my home using my personal computer .
in the very beginning , it was tougher for me to compose anything on the computer with the keyboard attached with it and it took longer hours for me to compose a document of three or four pages .
so , i started using internet to get some ways to learn typing .
i found some special applications that allow the users to get the desired typing skill .
besides , the applications also helped me to make the typing faster than it was in the beginning .
all of the earned skills are useful in real life but the applications may differ in situations .
when i started learning the skill , i thought that it would be of no use in my practical life and i am wasting my times .
but when i took part in my work , i was surprised by the applications of typing .
i have started serving the office in different ways with the typing skill .
as a result , my fame has increased as a typing expert and accordingly the office has evaluated my performance .
i have been promoted to senior administrative officer after three months when i applied the skill to my daily works at the workplace .
so , it appears to be a very useful skill for me .
i have had this routine of playing badminton in my school after finishing all the classes , something that i have been doing with a couple of friends since we were in th grade .
it is actually a class in which we have pe teachers as trainers and we often play with other students .
normally we would stay and practice for about an hour as were told by our teachers , but most of the time it takes a whole lot longer to determine the winner since everyone is very competitive .
and just like tennis , you can play badminton as either single matches or double matches .
the rules , as i see it , are pretty much the same .
i myself enjoy this game so much , though for me its a little bit harder to play as i am short sighted .
i have to admit that i used to struggle a lot trying to find ways to save money as well as to put my savings to good use .
luckily , i talked to a friend about this and she recommended something that truly changed my life .
its an incredibly useful mobile application called money lover .
and thanks to it , money management has now become a lot less troublesome .
thats also the tool that id like to tell you about .
on the outside the app is quite attention grabbing with the symbol of an adorable piggy bank .
and on the inside , its designed to efficiently arrange and calculate how much i should spend on necessities such as clothes , food , and some other stuff , which is very convenient for someone like me , who has a very bad memory .
so i think it would be fair to say that this way of saving money has changed my life for the better .
i have used the app for over months and up to now , i have a considerable number of savings in my bank account .
to my surprise , my friends even consider me as a shining model for them to follow when it comes to money saving , which makes me rather proud of myself .
in addition , my mom used to always get shirty with me about wasting money .
but i had lent my car to a friend for a couple of days and so i thought it would be quite fun to hop on a bus for a change because its something i havent done for a long time .
so i thought that i would set off early and get it done in a couple of hours and be back in time for lunch .
the shopping wasnt anything urgent , it was just that i had some free time that particular morning and thought it would be nice to do something different .
its fairly tough to talk about someones own personality for i firmly believe that the way we judge ourselves fundamentally differs from other people do .
nonetheless , we all have our own idea about our own characteristics .
i would like to talk about my honesty which is also one of the characters i find important and proud of .
honesty is a great virtue .
i am in favor of the viewpoint that if people could remain honest during the lifetime , they will be rewarded in the long run .
to be honest , honesty inside me leads me to do everything with genuine sincerity .
therefore , i am respected and adored by everyone and especially by my friends and colleagues .
i would like to talk about a piece of work that i had to do quickly , which was the preparation for a two minute talk in the ielts speaking test , the one that i am taking at the moment .
i just finished this preparation a few seconds ago .
when the second part of the speaking test began , i was given a topic which required me to describe something i had done quickly .
personally i think that was a really difficult topic , and it was even more challenging since i had only one minute to prepare for the talk .
i had to think really fast .
in my to meet list , there are so many well respected celebrities whom i am desired to meet and spend time with .
however , i would like to share about pele , who is nicknamed as the greatest soccer player around the globe .
initially , i really need to kick off with the point that pele was just seventeen when he first played in world cup in sweden of for brazil .
despite his very young age , he was selected for the national team participating one of the biggest sport competition on the planet .
back then , he was not the star player but when his teammate was hurt , pele went into the game .
i m going to talk about an acquaintance who ive recently met at my local english club .
his name is dave and hes about the same age as me .
im going to tell you about a time my grandfather lent me his car when mine broke down stopped working .
my car was in the shop after it left me stranded stuck without brakes , so i really appreciated his kind gesture .
if he hadnt done this for me , i would have been lost since this was the time before uber , not to mention i live in the suburbs of atlanta so there isnt much public transportation available .
i borrowed his honda civic for about a week .
i used it to get to work and school as well as run other errands .
im going to tell you about my love for reading .
ever since i was a child , ive always been more of the introverted type and have loved to have my face buried in a book .
since my parents often fought when i was a child , i felt that it was an escape from reality .
moreover , i am also really into writing and i think its impossible to be a great writer without reading .
through reading books , i can bask in deeply enjoy .
get lost in the literary geniuses of the book and find inspiration for my own books in the future .
in a world where negative news seems to take front and center , im really pleased to tell you about a positive news article i came across saw without looking for it the other day .
i was looking up some highlights from online , and stumbled across some information about how france is becoming a leader in curbing stopping food waste .
let me tell you about the actions they are taking .
the article talked about how france has banned supermarkets from throwing away leftover food that is either edible can be eaten or usable as animal feed .
moreover , they have made laws to demand that restaurants donate their food waste .
im going to talk about the american sitcom , friends .
although it first debuted in the s , i just began to watch it this past year .
i watched almost the entire series by myself , with the exception of a few episodes with my ex boyfriend .
we both chuckled at this goofy sitcom .
as im now in my late s like the characters in the show , it made me laugh a lot almost every episode because i can relate to many of the same situations and challenges that they face , especially dating .
i would like to talk about learning a language , which definitely requires a lot of time and patience .
i think many people go into learning a language expecting to speak fluently after a few short months which can lead them to disappointment .
i think to truly be fluent in a language , you need at least years , preferably living and immersing yourself in that country .
language starts with the grammar and sentence structure , then being able to listen and respond , then onto reading and writing which is a whole different ball game a different challenge .
even those who can communicate effectively would still struggle to read a novel or literature in that language .
im going to tell you about the thing which helps me stay focused most .
exercise .
i often get bogged down with work , and it seems like i can not stay concentrated if i dont take a short break to exercise .
thinking back , i didnt often exercise during my teen years , which was the period when i did the worst in school .
i believe there is a correlation here .
when i first starting regularly exercising at about years old , i was surprised to see how much my grades improved .
this actually happened the last time i took the ielts test .
i started at in the morning so naturally i had to get up at .
when i got out of the house , it was still dark outside .
the test was going to take place at a hotel , which is only minutes from my home .
so actually if everythingd gone according to plan , id have had an hour or so to relax or revise .
but unfortunately , it didn t .
after riding for about minutes , my bike started to make weird noises , the whole engine began shaking violently .
i hurriedly shut the engine , getting off the bike to examine it .
but i was no mechanic .
and as i suspected , the engine wouldnt start again .
so i had drag it along the street , looking for a repair shop .
luckily it didnt take me long to find one , and the repairman only needed minutes to fix my bike .
it wasnt a happy experience but at last i wasnt late for the test .
im going to tell you about the most gorgeous man ive ever seen .
although i dont like to admit it , there is a certain prototype specific type of men that i always find attractive .
that would be a dark skinned , dark haired man , maybe latino or mediterranean .
there is something about this look that is so exotic to me , as a fair skinned , light haired freckly with freckles woman .
ill never forget this man i saw during my trip in costa rica once .
im going to talk about my friend , hardy , who is very good at languages and always has a lot of interesting ideas when it comes to language learning and teaching .
he is a fellow teacher at my workplace so we have had lot of opportunities to work together .
he is fluent in three foreign languages , english , chinese and japanese , in addition to his mother tongue .
so you can imagine , as a language teacher , he has great advantages .
although language comes to him naturally , he knows that for others it may not , and always tries to come up with new methods to help language learners improve faster and achieve better results .
so im going to talk about a quiz show called who is the millionaire ?
you should know what its like because the format is very popular all around the world .
at the start of the show contestants are gathered and will have to answer a multiple choice question to decide who gets to be the hot seat .
naturally its the person who answers accurately within the shortest time .
when a contestant is selected , he or she will proceed to sit in a chair in the centre and have the opportunity to answer in total questions that get harder over time .
im going to talk about snorkeling , which is quite popular nowadays but for some reasons i havent had the chance to try .
so you can do this sport pretty much everywhere provided that theres a body of water , preferably a beach with some beautiful submarine landscape .
ive heard that the ideal place to go is coron island where theres gorgeous coral .
the equipment required for this sport is quite simple , you just need a snorkel to help you breathe underwater .
obviously it is better to wear a mask to prevent water from coming into your eyes and fins to swim faster .
im pretty busy now so is quite rare to me .. a day off .
but when i do get free time , i would wake up early in the morning for a run .
although i dont like sweating but it is necessary to stay fit and stay healthy .
afterwards i normally have a full breakfast , getting enough energy for a new day .
im a reader so i always have a few books sitting around waiting for me to pick up .
i would grab some , put them in my bag then head to a nice cafe in the city centre .
my favourite is a rooftop cafe , which allows me to take in the whole city .
it is also very quiet so i can concentrate on reading .
at noon i would have lunch with some friends to catch up on each others lives .
it is also a good chance to try out new cuisine in the city .
in the afternoon , i would find some cultural activities nearby , and mind you , theres always some in the central area .
i love going to these events to make new friends and appreciate art .
last year i was working in an international company and doing quite well , so i was offered a big promotion to become a manager .
but i had also been looking for opportunities to study abroad , and received an offer from a prestigious university around the same time i got the job offer .
it was a scholarship that would cover all expenses , including tuition and accommodation , an enviable package .
apparently i was in a dilemma , not knowing whether to stay and further my career or to go and further my education .
so i decided to ask my friend , hugo , for his advice , because he once faced a very similar choice .
just last week my dad lost his wallet .
he was sure he dropped it somewhere in the house , so he went everywhere looking for it but found nothing .
i know my dad is a bit forgetful so it could have been anywhere , in his room , outside the house or in one of the restaurants that he frequents .
the wallet contains important identification papers and bank cards , and getting them redone is a big hassle , so he was bent on recovering it .
i thought id lend him a hand , looking first inside our house , then went out asking around to see if anyone has picked it up .
unfortunately after hours of searching the wallet was still nowhere to be seen .
id gone home and almost given up hope when i noticed something in dark brown lying under a chest of drawers in our living room .
it was none other than my dads wallet !
he mustve accidentally dropped it there .
so im going to talk about this time when i needed a foreign book for my studies .
i was in my junior year in university and we had this assignment that required us to find the latest statistics , some of which are very hard to come by .
apparently in order to get access to new data you must know the right source and pay some fees .
i found out that the statistics that i needed were published in a book but unfortunately it was not available for sales in my country .
and even if id had it delivered , by the time it arrived itd have been too late .
last year i applied for a masters degree because i wanted to further my education .
i was accepted by one of the very prestigious universities , but didnt have the money for the course .
the tuition was quite expensive and there was no installment plan available , so i had to pay it in one go .
so i had no choice but to borrow some from my parents and promised to pay back this year .
as a result , ive been working pretty hard and have almost made enough money to repay the debt .
it would probably be english .
i used to dislike and even fear this subject so much that i felt a lot of pressure in english lessons .
there are many things about this language that frustrates a person like me .
for example , english has a very different system of sounds , grammar and vocabulary , making it very hard for us to get correct pronunciation , remember words and form sentences .
i used to struggle a lot too but with some persistence i managed to get past the most difficult period .
after that everything gradually became easier .
especially when you start to understand english movies or articles , you have this huge sense of achievement and that moves you forward even faster .
so my advice for anyone who struggles to learn a new skill is , invest a lot of efforts at the start .
the moment you get the hang of something youll be motivated and just keep going from there .
im going to tell about my college graduation gift from my grandparents .
they have grandchildren , so they made a pact to give us all the same graduation gift .
with this said , they decided to give all of us , upon completion of our bachelors degree .
i graduated back in and received the gift a month after , since they live hours away .
i had a late graduation party in my backyard in june since some family members were busy during in the month of may with their own children .
i have this friend who ive grown up with .
we are pretty close and this advice i gave him had to do with his career .
last year he was working in an international company and doing quite well , so he was offered a big promotion to become a manager .
but he had also been looking for opportunities to study abroad , and received an offer from a prestigious university around the same time he got the job offer .
it was a scholarship that would cover all expenses , including tuition and accommodation , an enviable package .
apparently he was in a dilemma , not knowing whether to stay and further his career or to go and further his education .
im going to tell you about an extremely widespread plant in my country , the coca leaf .
although its controversial in other countries , as this plant is used to produce cocaine , its said to heal the symptoms of altitude sickness and give you a boost of energy while climbing the high andes mountains .
actually , its considered a sacred plant in my country due to its healing tendencies .
let me tell you more about it !
its a green color and not very large in size .
id say each individual leaf is about cm in length and in width .
the first thing i want to say is that i hardly ever get up early , so when i do it must be something important .
so the nearest occasion when i had to be up early was last year when i took the ielts test .
it started at in the morning so naturally i had to get up at .
when i got out of the house it was still dark outside .
it took me minutes by motorbike to arrive at the hotel where the test was going to take place .
today we ll discuss one of the most astonishing behaviors in the animal world .
dancing bees .
you ve been reading about animal behavior .
today we ll discuss one of the most astonishing behaviors in the animal world .
dancing bees .
did you know that bees can dance ?
well , neither did scientists , until the s .
that s when a german scientist , named , karl von frisch , noticed something truly remarkable .
as he was observing honeybees , he noticed that some of the bees , which he called scout bees , flew out of the hive to look for food .
when a scout found a site where there was food , it flew back to the beehive and started dancing .
this dance somehow told the other honeybees where the food was , because after the dance , the bees some of the bees flew from the hive straight to the site of the food .
von frisch called the bees that collect the food forager bees .
he thought the scout bee s dance told the forager bees three things first , the smell of the food it had found .
second , which direction to fly to reach the food .
and third , the distance of the food site from the beehive .
von frisch won the nobel prize for this discovery , but many scientists were skeptical of his theory .
they didnt believe it was the dance that led the forager bees to food .
instead , they thought it might be , oh , the smell of the food on the dancing bee , or maybe that they just followed the scout back to the food site .
the british researchers found that scout bees perform two types of dances .
if the food is near the hive , say , oh , about or meters away , the scout flies in a round pattern , like a circle .
this tells the location , but not the direction , of the food site .
if the site is farther away , the scout does what s called a waggle dance .
it flies in a pattern of ovals and vertical lines .
the speed of the waggle dance tells other bees how far away the food site is .
the slower the dance , the farther away the food .
if the scout flies in a vertical line up the side of the beehive , it s telling the foragers to fly directly toward the sun .
if the scout flies vertically down the hive , it s saying , fly away from the sun .
up is toward , down is away .
if the scout flies at an angle to the hive , it s telling the foragers to fly neither toward nor away from the sun , but in between .
the bees have a special internal mechanism to know which angle they should fly , based on the sun , the hive and the food site .
they can also measure the distance they fly by recording the motion of things they see as they fly past .
now , one problem with von frisch s theory had been this .
it seems to take the forager bees a long time to reach the food site .
that s why that s why scientists thought that perhaps it wasnt the waggle dance that led them there .
for many years , scientists couldntfollow the foragers after they left the hive , .
because they didnt have the technology .
just a few years ago , though , the british scientists solved this problem using a new type of radar .
they were able to attach a , small radio transmitter to forager bees i dont know how , but they did .
this enabled them to follow the forager bees flight after they left the hive .
the radar showed that foragers , do , in fact , fly straight to the area of the food site .
they dont follow the scout bee back to the site , because the scout goes into the hive after it finishes dancing .
well then , if the waggle dance does lead the foragers directly to the food site , why does it take so long for them to find the actual food ?
the answer is that the waggle dance leads the foragers only to the general area of the food .
it doesnt tell them the exact location of the flowers or plants that have the food .
so the foragers have to spend a while flying around the area before they find the exact location of what they re looking for .
you ve been reading this month about food chains and food webs .
today we ll discuss these in relation to seafood .
how many of you like seafood ?
most of you .
so do i .
in fact , i m on a seafood diet .
i see food , i eat it .
get it ?
but seriously folks .
today we re going to talk about trophic relationships in marine food chains and webs .
many people , including scientists , are confused about the distinction between nuts and seeds .
some dictionaries say a nut is also a seed , others say a nut is a fruit , and still others say a nut can be both a fruit and a seed .
how can an average person tell the difference ?
well , in a nutshell , nuts are seeds but seeds can not be nuts .
clear as a bell , right ?
most scholars agree that women have been short changed in united states history textbooks .
most scholars agree that women have been short changed in united states history textbooks .
because a woman has never been a , us president or a commander a major commander , anyway in a war , these scholars argue that historians have , overlooked or ignored the contributions women have made to us history .
in recent years , though , a new view of women s history has emerged .
it s called women centered history , and it s forcing historians to re interpret traditional pictures of key historical events .
now they re looking at ways women contributed to history behind the scenes , if you will .
good morning .
ready to begin ?
today id like to complement our study of romanticism by examining more closely the life of charles fourier .
that s four like the number , before we study mr. fourier , let s review what we know about romanticism .
who can tell me what romanticism was , and when it lasted ?
yes , mr. stiles .
romanticism was a cultural and , artistic movement in europe .
it lasted for the first quarter of the th no , i mean th century .
very nice , mr. stiles .
who would like to summarize the main message of romanticism ?
lets see mr. brown ?
the main message was probably , that artists should , that individuals should , use their imagination to choose the form and content of all art .
the romantics thought that the enlightenment had kind of choked off imagination , and feeling , and creativity , and , like stifled all individual freedom .
well put , mr. brown .
the romantics loathed any type of rationalism .
the enlightenment had emphasized rationality and reason so much that the romantics felt the individual had been demolished , reduced to an automated robot .
it was time to liberate the soul , to break away and stand out , to reclaim individual freedom .
rousseau penned the rallying cry in the beginning of his confessions .
i am not made like any of those i have seen .
i venture to believe that i am not made like any of those who are in existence .
if i am not better , at least i am different .
so then , it was against this backdrop that charles fourier appeared on the historical stage .
mr. fourier was what karl marx would later dub a utopian socialist .
he was one of three main utopian socialists , along with robert owen and henri de saint simon .
a utopian socialist , broadly speaking , was someone who employed socialist principles to create hypothetical versions of perfect utopias , societies that were egalitarian or communal , in which people would live in perfect fairness and harmony .
utopian philosophers believed these kinds of societies could be achieved in the immediate future .
they thus planted the first seeds of the early th century socialist movement .
monsieur fourier was born in northeast france on april , , and he died in paris on october , .
he was widely regarded as the most utopian of the utopian socialists .
he argued vigorously , for instance , that women should have equal rights with men and actually coined our modern word feminism .
also , he thought the industrial revolution that was then taking place in england was simply a passing phase .
that mankind would move beyond industrialism to something better .
as to what that something better would be , fourier had some rather unusual ideas .
he was born into a well to do family of cloth merchants , and after he inherited his mother s estate in , he had the money and time to pursue these notions .
in his four published works , fourier laid out a vision of a future community built on emotional bonds , fueled by what he called the laws of passional attraction .
basic human passions and drives had been repressed for too long , he argued .
now these emotions needed to be openly expressed and harnessed .
men and women would live in self contained housing units with , members .
why is 1620 ?
because mr. fourier had determined that people could be classified into different psychological types .
if you multiply this by two , for men and women , you get , .
with such precise pairing , he was certain that the laws of passional attraction would produce ideal , harmonious relationships .
many of fourier s ideas , to be frank , were perfect nonsense .
he projected that his new world would last for , years , the last , of these in an era of perfect harmony .
in this period he predicted , among other things , that six moons would orbit the earth , and the seas would become oceans of lemonade laughter .
but sprinkled amidst his nonsense were enough kernels of fresh thought to qualify fourier as an instrumental influence on later socialist thinkers , such as marx and engels .
many think the most valuable of these kernels was fourier s idea that work , especially heavy manual labor , could be turned into play .
something deeply satisfying both mentally and physically .
that was probably the one vision of fourier s that most captivated later socialist thinkers .
raise your hand if you re right handed .
yep , that looks typical .
most of us about ninety percent are right handed .
it s been that way throughout history .
in ever .
in nearly every culture , right has been associated with positive qualities , while the left has been associated with negative , or even evil , ones .
in latin , left means sinister .
in ancient japan , men could reject or refuse to marry women who were left handed .
benjamin franklin was a renowned statesman , a successful proprietor , an avid philosopher , and a prolific scien false start uh , inventor .
as we learned from our reading this week , his inventions include bifocals , the franklin stove , the odometer , and , of course , the lightning rod .
today , though , i want to argue the case that franklin s greatest legacy was not in any of those roles , or as a founding father of the united states , but as a writer .
do any of you know a book that franklin has written ?
anyone ?
well , that s because franklin wrote , er , didnt write any great novels , a la later us greats like hemingway , f. scott fitzgerald , and mark twain .
as a part of our study of the effects of diseases on society , of the , uh , social consequences of man s diseases , we should certainly include yellow fever .
now , yellow fever is a deadly disease that s caused by a virus , and it s been the source of many epidemics since at least the eighteenth century in africa , europe , and the americas .
as a part of our study of the effects of diseases on society , of the , uh , social consequences of man s diseases , we should certainly include yellow fever .
now , yellow fever is a deadly disease that s caused by a virus , and it s been the source of many epidemics since at least the eighteenth century in africa , europe , and the americas .
in fact , it still kills more than thirty thousand people a year worldwide .
and there s still no cure for the disease .
however , there is a vaccine to immunize us against it .
today id like to look at the topic of island biogeography the study of plant and animal distributions on islands .
studies in this field ballooned soon after the publication of macarthur and wilson s seminal theory of island biogeography in .
their theory is a simple , elegant bit of reasoning that was a major breakthrough in modern ecological thought .
the theory of equilibrium in island biogeography says that the number of kinds of plants and animals on an undisturbed island that is , a natural island unaffected by man or other calamity is determined by two processes , immigration and extinction .
in other words , the number of species on an island is the sum of the species that arrive , breed and live there successfully , minus the number of species that arrive but fail to breed or that eventually become extinct .
a university lecture by a professor in the college of fine arts .
good morning , everyone .
today , i want to start with a look at perspective , visual perspective .
first , we ll look very briefly at the kinds of perspective , and then we ll look very quickly at its history in art .
just in case you dont know what we re discussing perspective in art is the way that artists represent three dimensional objects on the two dimensions of their canvas .
there are two basic sorts of visual perspective aerial perspective and linear perspective .
in our overview of world theatrical traditions , id like to try to give you now a general idea of the nature of the noh theatre of japan .
a university lecture by a drama professor .
in our overview of world theatrical traditions , id like to try to give you now a general idea of the nature of the noh theatre of japan .
noh is a difficult art to categorize , really it could be described , i guess , as a sort of stylized , symbolic drama which is rooted in , based on , song and dance , and which was formalized some six hundred years ago .
even the japanese admit that only a few of them can now understand the language used in noh dialogs or , rather , monologues , since most noh plays have only one main character , along with a very secondary character and a chorus .
the pleasure of watching a noh play is in enjoying the quiet , elegant visual and auditory beauty of the performance a concept encapsuled in the japanese term yugen , which means something like profound , elusive beauty .
noh sounds very zen , doesnt it ?
the dramas are played on a single , square platform with a single painted pine tree on the background a holdover from when the plays were presented outdoors .
the audience sits at the front and on one side of the stage , and on the other side is a covered ramp also part of the acting area that leads offstage .
this ramp symbolizes the transition between the real world and the spiritual world .
one interesting feature of most noh stages is the large earthenware jars that are placed under them .
these large jars are set at an angle with their mouths upward .
because the sounds on the stage resonate in the jars below , they increase the acoustic effects of the performance .
the history of noh is well documented .
sangaku , a whole troupe of entertainment arts acrobatics , magic , song and dance , juggling , et cetera arrived from china in the eighth century .
at the same time , a more solemn japanese native art called dengaku was being performed at the great buddhist temples .
dengaku had developed from harvest rituals and ceremonies , and was performed by incantation masters .
it was supported by the nobility , and it also enjoyed great popularity .
these two independent , very different , kinds of performances were brought together in the fourteenth century during japan s muromachi period by a father and son , kan ami and ze ami , two great theatrical geniuses .
they were directors , actors , playwrights and theoreticians , and from elements of sangaku and dengaku , they created nogaku , a refined , elegant new theatrical art in much the same form as we see it today .
this was the great period of creativity and imaginative growth in noh .
incredibly , some of ze ami s notebooks still remain in existence it s like having chaucer s or shakespeare s personal notes still available to us !
one of ze ami s early performances caught the eye of the shogun ashikaga yoshimitsu , and the shogun gave them his enthusiastic support .
this patronage continued through the next two shoguns and into the momoyama period and the shogunates of the great oda nobunaga , toyotomi hideyoshi , and tokugawa ieyasu .
these powerful men were such noh enthusiasts that they pretty much took over its administration .
they consolidated the acting troupes , standardized the operations , and established a set program of five plays to be performed in a single day .
there are now a repertory of about noh plays , and there are two basic kinds genzai noh , realistic noh and mugen noh , fantasy noh .
in realistic noh , the main character is a real person , and the acting occurs in real time .
the usual theme is the depicting of the main character s inner feelings in a dramatic situation .
in mugen noh , on the other hand , in fantasy noh , the main character is supernatural a demon , a god , a ghost , or something like that .
the themes come mostly from classical literature .
the most popular mugen is lady aoi .
her story comes from the eleventh century novel , the tale of genji .
in it , the ghost of lady rokujo , the rejected lover of prince genji , possesses his wife , lady aoi .
a buddhist exorcist drives the ghost out in the shape of a horned demon , and they fight a battle for power .
it is a typical noh a highly stylized integration of dance , song , poetry and percussion .
the percussion is provided by the four piece orchestra of flute and drums .
the spoken words are elongated in a complex , structured chant .
a single instant can go on for several minutes , or a lengthy stretch of time can be over in an instant .
the main actor can expend so much energy in his subtle portrayal of intense emotion that his heart rate can reach beats a minute , even while he is standing still .
noh is difficult to perform and difficult to understand , but it is well worth your effort to try to appreciate this unique dramatic art if you ever get a chance .
now , we re all familiar , i think , with the united nations organization , and we re very accustomed to a world divided into nations but many of you may not realize how recent the idea of the nation state really is .
most of the history of civilization s been a history of much smaller units from primitive tribes to greek city states and later of the much larger units usually called empires .
the concept of a political and cultural nation , as we know it today , didnt appear until near the end of the th century , at the time of the french and american revolutions .
let s look at a couple of terms first , just to make them clear .
strictly speaking , a nation is a cultural concept a group of people in a particular area who are usually defined as sharing a common history , common traditions , the same language or ethnic origin , et cetera .
simply speaking , a black hole is what s left after a large star dies .
you re already aware that a star is an energy producer , a nuclear fusion reactor its core is a gigantic nuclear fusion bomb that s trying to explode but its mass of surrounding gases is so large that its gravity contains the explosion , and the balance that exists between the gravity and the fusion is what determines the star s size .
however , as a star gets older , as it ages , its fuels gets used up and its nuclear reactor slows down .
and then , its gravity gets the upper hand .
the star implodes .
before we examine the modern american entertainment industry broadway shows , hollywood movies , rock concerts , television , and all that let s take a short look at the beginnings of organized entertainment in america .
almost since the very beginning of the country , americans had been able to enjoy itinerant performances of one kind or another , shows that travelled around to find their audiences , in towns and villages across the continent .
travelling medicine shows , offering jugglers and music along with their snake oil and miracle tonics , were popular .
then there were buffalo bill cody s wild west shows , with trick riders and dramatic reenactments , which toured the country , as did several circuses like barnum and bailey s .
and there were the showboats paddle wheelers carried music and comedy up and down our river systems , up and down the mississippi river and the missouri river , and the ohio river .
meanwhile , town halls , saloons and music halls , dime museums and burlesque houses , all sprang up across the country , wherever people had some money to burn and were looking for a little fun .
but then , after the civil war , after , america s social structure began to change , change radically .
the country began to grow economically , and its cities began to grow , and an american middle class began to develop , with increased spending power and leisure time .
this was also a time of industrial growth , and transportation and communication technologies improved rapidly .
businesses became large and national in scope .
and it was at this same time that entertainment became an industry with the appearance of vaudeville .
vaudeville was something new the first mass entertainment , in that it no longer catered just to the gullible or to those looking for the risque .
from its inception , it was geared toward middle class men and women and families and it very quickly spread nationwide .
its performance halls were alcohol free and its hall managers demanded decorum no spitting on the floor or jeering the acts and its performers were denied the use of bawdy material .
vaudeville was the first family entertainment .
theatre historians usually date vaudeville s beginning at october th , , when a former circus ringmaster , tony pastor , first offered polite variety programs in his new york city theatres .
pastor hoped to draw his audiences from the uptown shopping traffic , from the salaried workers and their wives and children .
he barred alcohol sales and risque material from his theatres , and he offered luxurious facilities , and he gave out door prizes like hams and coal to his patrons and his idea proved so successful that other theatre managers soon followed suit .
incredibly , by the s , vaudeville has already developed into regional and national chains of theatres , with sophisticated booking and contract systems .
professor .
at its height , vaudeville performed before a broad range of theatre sizes and economic classes the so called small time , and medium time , and big time .
and it was the big time that all of its entertainers hoped to rise to .
the big time , with its palacial urban theatres and its salaries of several thousand dollars a week !
an act could be just about anything that was entertaining and inoffensive escape artists like the great houdini , high divers , contortionists , hypnotists , tap dancers , trained animals , every imaginable kind of novelty act .
and of course , there were the headliners , the singers and dancers and comedians whose popularity drew the customers .
some of their careers outlasted vaudeville .
wc fields , will rogers , al jolsen , kate smith , eddie cantor , george burns , jack benny these names you may not recognize now .
but they were some of the greatest vaudevillians , who went on as far as the early years of movies and then television , and set the performance standards in those media as well , who set many of the performance styles we still enjoy today .
at the beginning of the twentieth century , in , the new medium of the motion picture , an early silent movie , was first incorporated into a vaudeville bill between the live acts .
thirty years later , on november th , , new york s palace theatre the capital of vaudeville offered its first exclusively cinematic presentation , and this is considered vaudeville s official end the point in time where movies overtook live performances in the hearts of american audiences .
for vaudeville itself , it was a relatively brief stardom only about fifty years from start to finish but actually , the spirit of vaudeville lived on .
its performers moved into the movies or onto broadway , and then many of these stars moved on to television .
and we ll be looking at these media next .
the little ice age , or l i a for short , was a period of climatic and social upheaval in the northern hemisphere that brought severe winters and bad , er , unpredictable weather to many parts of the world , particularly northern europe .
people , scientists disagree on the lia s precise beginning and ending dates , but unusual weather has been documented from the early s to the mid s , and it made significant impacts on agriculture , economics , health , and , uh , politics , and produced weather phenomena that have not been experienced since .
london s thames river in london froze twice , for example , in and , and in the entire new york harbor became frozen .
people could actually walk from staten island to manhattan !
the weather changes began about , oh , , when ice packs in the north atlantic ocean and glaciers in greenland began spreading south .
the first coffee beans are rumored to have been discovered by a goat herder in ninth century ethiopia .
show of hands .
how many of you drink coffee ?
that looks about right .
according to those who know more than i , about eight of every americans drink coffee each morning , and the typical american will have three cups of it per day .
this morning id like to look briefly at classical greek drama , because its influence has lasted for over two thousand years , and it remains the source , the origin , for much of the form and style of our modern western stage and film dramas .
classical greek dramas , at its height of achievement in athens during what is called the golden age of pericles in the fifth century bc , was very formal , very styled .
it used scenery very sparely , and with its masks and buskins , it might remind you of japanese noh or may be the lion king .
excuse me , professor , but what are buskins ?
buskins are very high soled boots almost like short stills that were worn to increase the actors height , his presence , and make him look more impressive .
dry land farming is a set of agricultural practices , agricultural techniques , that should be , or need to be , used to produce profitable crops in areas where the rainfall or the snowfall is slight , is erratic , or is very seasonal , and is generally less than about fifty centimeters a year .
good afternoon class .
we ve been looking at various of the world s population problems and their possible solutions over our last few classes .
today id like us to take a quick look at one of the solutions to the growing problem of supplying enough food for us all .
its called dry land farming .
dry land farming is a set of agricultural practices , agricultural techniques , that should be , or need to be , used to produce profitable crops in areas where the rainfall or the snowfall is slight , is erratic , or is very seasonal , and is generally less than about fifty centimeters a year .
all over the world , there are countries that must use these less than optimal lands to grow their food the north american prairies , the south american pampas , the russian steppes , the middle east all these areas have marginal rainfall , precipitation .
almost half of india s arable cultivatable land , out of a total of million hectares , is dry land , as opposed to land fed by adequate rainfall .
originally , these lands were covered with well adapted grasses , but today much of the natural cover is gone , and these vast plains are seen as , potentially at least , our global breadbasket .
you know , class , today we live in what s becoming essentially a single , worldwide civilization .
there re still a few isolated areas that havent hooked up to it yet , i guess , but the africans are driving toyotas , the americans love sushi , the chinese are shopping for gucci bags , and the young people of russia and iran and peru all wear levi jeans and listen to rock music .
the greatest impetus for this globalization today is no doubt the internet , but one of the first major drivers of globalization came into being about two thousand years ago .
it was the great silk road , which was the oldest , longest , and most historically significant trade route in the world , and it significantly changed the cultures of almost all of continental eurasia .
the silk road wasnt actually a single road , though .
you know , sometimes the study of history can be fun , so let s spend a few minutes having some .
id like make a not so scientific comparison of two events the naval attacks of the mongols on japan in and , and the naval attack of spain on england in .
these two famous historical events took place three hundred years apart and halfway round the world from each other .
and they are quite unrelated , but some of the details of these battles are intriguingly similar , if only by chance .
but first , let s review the two adventures very briefly .
kublai khan , the grandson of genghis khan , in his drive to expand his empire , attempted to invade japan twice .
for more than a hundred years after the first dinosaur fossils were dug up , paleontologists just assumed that dinosaurs were cold blooded animals , like modern lizards and snakes are .
dinosaurs were big , and they were slow , and they were stupid and none of these characteristics are consistent with small , active , intelligent , warm blooded animals like birds and mammals .
but in the late s , two young yale scientists , robert bakker and john ostrum , came out with the hypothesis that dinosaurs were in fact faster , smarter and more energetic organisms than science previously thought .
this radical idea caused an immediate stir , and the controversy about dinosaur physiology is still continuing today .
first , here are some of the arguments put forth for warm bloodness , or endothermism , in dinosaurs .
i ll bet we re all wearing something made out of cotton .
i m wearing cotton underwear .
cotton is the most common natural fiber fabric used in clothing .
it comes from a sort of pod called a boll , which surrounds the seeds of a shrub that is native to tropical and subtropical areas all over the world in africa , in india , in the americas .
you know , one of the most significant movements in modern architecture and design took place in germany in the nineteen twenties and thirties .
it was called the bauhaus movement .
bauhaus just means building school , and the bauhaus was an art school , started in .
the bauhaus program was the first model for our contemporary art schools , as we know them today .
its program was the first attempt to integrate the artist with the craftsman , and its philosophy was heavily influenced by william morris , the great nineteenth century english designer .
morris s theory was that form should follow function , that art should serve the needs of society , that art has a social function .
of course , modernism in art had already appeared some time before this the great expressionists , like vincent van gogh , edvard munch , marc chagall , had been working since the late nineteenth century .
but now , the horrors of world war one , along with the poverty and inflation that followed it , caused the german art community to turn to what they called the new objectivity .
the bauhaus design innovations reflected this with imaginative but very practical , simplified forms , with an emphasis on functionality and efficiency , and with the idea that mass production and artistic creativeness could work together .
they were practical planners for the modern lifestyle .
the post war government of the german weimar republic permitted a surge , an outpouring , of radical experimentation in all the arts but at the same time , germany was trying hard to remain economically competitive with britain and the united states , even though it was suffering financial privation and even though it lacked natural resources .
the bauhaus movement recognized these difficulties and offered solutions to them , and in this way it contributed to both social and artistic change .
bauhaus designs were pure and simple .
the buildings , the interiors , and the furniture that the school created could all be built cheaply and efficiently .
they emphasized straight edges and slim , smooth shapes , and a modern , hygienic freshness .
in particular , the bauhaus designers discovered steel .
in spite of this emphasis on practical functionality , many famous , creative designs emerged from the bauhaus .
if we look only at their chairs , four very original designs were created at the bauhaus the wassily chair , le corbusier s lounge chair number four , the cantilever chair , and the barcelona chair and all four chair designs are very popular and are found everywhere today .
the wassily chair was designed by a hungarian designer , marcel breuer , who was the director of the bauhaus carpentry shop .
it is made of a simple , cubical tubular steel frame , with canvas straps for the seat and back , and it has been in continuous mass production since the early s .
breuer said he got the idea for the wassily chair s design from the handlebars of his bicycle .
le corbusier s lc lounge chair is probably the most popular and most comfortable lounge chair ever built .
le corbusier s idea was that a chair is a machine for sitting on , and this chair , which is gently curved to fit all the curves of the body , is still a popular design in spas and living rooms .
the cantilever chair was designed by breuer and mart stamm , a dutch designer .
it has no rear legs , but is supported by the tensile strength of the s curve of its steel tubing frame .
this little chair is still an extremely common design for kitchens and restaurants .
and mies van der rohe s barcelona chair uses leather or cloth straps to suspend its seat cushion on a folding , x shaped tubular steel frame .
his design became a symbol of the elegance of avant garde living , but it s so simple that it s now seen in the luggage racks in most every hotel room in the world .
the bauhaus movement is not really important for its chairs , though .
it s important because it came along at the right time in history to popularize many key modern concepts of design .
many outstanding artists of that period lectured at the school le corbusier , walter gropius , mies van der rohe , wassily kandinsky , paul klee , lazlo moholy nagy , piet mondrian .
these great artists and their students were to lead contemporary design into daily life .
unfortunately , the rise of adolph hitler cut short the bauhaus s exciting experiments .
it was closed down by the nazis after only years of existence , in .
hitler accused it of being a front for jews , communists , and ungerman social liberals .
however later , the bauhaus lecturers and students fled nazi germany to the us , russia , israel , and western europe .
they continued to teach far and wide , and in this way , their ideas on contemporary architecture and design spread even faster throughout the world .
now , one of the most interesting events , i think , in afro american history , was the development of the underground railroad in the years before the civil war .
i guess you ve all heard of that , right ?
then you know that the underground railroad wasnt a real railroad it just got that name , in about , because at that time the new steam engines , the new steam railways , were becoming important in the us economy .
so , the underground railroad wasnt a railroad it was a network of people who helped slaves in the south escape to the north , to the northern states and to canada , mostly , but also to the west , to mexico , and to the caribbean as well .
these people were black and white , abolitionists and free blacks and various religious groups , and they helped slaves escape from their masters , they hid them in their houses , and they secretly conveyed them by wagon , by boat , and on foot to places where human slavery was illegal .
now , as a part of our study of biological evolution and evolutionary processes , let s look for a few minutes at an extraordinary group of bird species , the birds of paradise .
you may have seen pictures of some of these fantastic birds i think there s one in the next chapter of our textbook .
the male birds of paradise are incredibly beautiful creatures .
they have extremely elongated and very elaborate sets of many coloured feathers arising from their head and tail and wings , and when the males display for the females during courtship , they can erect and manipulate these feather tracts , waving or shaking or twirling or wiggling these feathers .
and at the same time they often assume very odd postures or do acrobatics so they put on quite incredible performances to attract females .
let s talk for a while about bread .
yes , you heard me bread !
all over the world , in europe and the americas and in most of asia , bread is the staff of life , it s a key food in people s diets .
almost everyone eats bread we eat it as toast for breakfast , as sandwiches for lunch , as hamburger buns for dinner or people eat it as croissants or roti , naan or chappati , or under hundreds of other names in as many different languages .
even in southeast asia , where rice is king , bread is becoming more and more popular these days .
and it should , because it s a very healthy and nutritious , convenient , delicious food !
man has been making bread since the stone age .
it s at least ten thousand years old .
so , the next really significant step in the development of the english language in the development of both our language and certainly our literature is geoffrey chaucer and his canterbury tales .
and there is no way i can overstate chaucer s important place in the history of our language .
it s easy to remember his time on the historical timeline of the english language he died in the year , at the very beginning of the fifteenth century .
england had been under norman french rule for three hundred years by then ever since the norman conquest in .
with william the conqueror , norman french had become the language of power and commerce in england .
id like to talk to you for a few minutes now about cargo cults .
cargo cults are an odd backwater of primitive religious thought .
but nevertheless , they do offer some interesting insights into the actual functioning of some early religious beliefs .
they are valuable because they can be observed today remnants of these primitive cults still exist .
and one of the most remarkable is the annual celebration of john frum day every february the fifteenth in the republic of vanuatu .
on johm frum day , the villagers dress up in homemade us army uniforms , fly the georgia state flag , and march around the town in formation , carrying bamboo rifles on their shoulders .
all this is an effort to magically attract the us army , with its cargoes of cigarettes and canned spam and flashlight batteries , back to vanuatu .
we don t know with certainty who invented the bicycle , or where it was invented , or when .
we do know that the modern bicycle had several precursors from different parts of europe , and that many of its individual components were developed separately at different periods of time .
some historians claim that the famous artist leonardo da vinci is the true father of the bicycle .
in 1490 , da vinci sketched a remarkable facsimile of a modern bicycle , but his idea was never implemented .
ironically , da vinci also sketched a modern helicopter hundreds of years before it was officially invented .
in modern hospitals and medical facilities , it is imperative that used equipment be thoroughly cleansed , or sterilized .
this includes instruments such as scalpels , hypodermic needles , and artificial pacemakers .
if you ve ever had a shot , or given blood , you know just how important this is .
right ?
its crucial that the bacteria , viruses and other , uh , harmful substances on these instruments are eradicated before they are used again .
today ... ahem , can i have your attention please ?
thank you .
today i want to talk about a pungent plant that is known by such flattering aliases as stinking ninny and mares fart .
its called ragwort , and although it is a flower , its definitely not the type you want to give your wife on valentines day .
ragwort is a wildflower with characteristics of a weed .
birds use communication for a variety of reasons .
to repel other birds , to attract other birds , to find family members , and to alert other birds to danger .
they communicate with each other in unique and fascinating methods , which include singing , dancing and strutting .
biologists have only recently begun to compre false start to understand the implications of some of these , er , interesting behaviors .
verbally , birds make noises that scientists label calls and song .
types of calls are cheeps , honks , squawks , chips i mean chirps and tweets .
were now going to spend some time , class , talking about the most revolutionary , the most prodigious artist in the history of modern western art .
do you know who i m talking about ?
of course its pablo picasso .
he was the artist who invented cubism , he was the artist who invented collage , and he was the artist who experimented with more styles and media than probably any other artist in history , with the possible exception of leonardo da vinci .
and what i m passing out to you now are figures of some of picassos most famous and most revolutionary paintings .
picasso was born in spain in , and he died in france in , so his life spanned most of the development of what we call modern art .
well , it looks like everybodys here , so id like to welcome you all to sociobiology .
some of you are sociology majors , i know , and others of you are in the biology department , so i think the first thing i should do is give you all an idea of what sociobiology is all about .
it is a relatively new field .
the word sociobiology didnt even exist until , and it wasnt really noticed until after , when the great entomologist , edward o.wilson , discussed it in his book , sociobiology .
the new synthesis .
it was after this book was published that sociobiology really explored into an exciting new field of research .
i noticed on my way to class today that someone has spray painted an image of our school mascot you know , a wolverine with the slogan go wolverines !
on the wall of the student union .
have any of you seen that yet ?
i guess theyre just expressing their enthusiasm for the football season .
its not a very artistic effort , but it is a perfect example of the kind of modern art i want to talk about today .
of course , graffiti is not modern at all .
good morning , class .
its a beautiful spring day outside , isnt it ?
we will soon be seeing the first robin of spring and so , its a perfect day to begin talking about migration .
migration is the main strategy that animals have for avoiding adverse environments and taking advantage of rich environments .
of course , there are other strategies , too hibernation , for example but far and away the most common way for animals to escape poor conditions and get to better ones is by migration a mass journey from one place to the other .
vocabulary is not tested directly on the ielts .
there are no questions on the ielts that ask specifically for the meaning of a word .
however , comprehension is tested .
can you understand what you read ?
can you understand what you hear ?
the more words you know , the more you will understand .
the more words you know , the more fluently you will be able to speak and write .
essential words for the ielts will teach you words that you might find on the exam in reading and listening and that you might use in writing and speaking .
you will also learn skills that will help you learn new words easily .
essential words for the ielts will teach you how to use context clues .
the context provides clues to the meaning of a word .
these clues may be in the same sentence or in the same paragraph .
you will learn to look for definitions , synonyms , or paraphrases within the text .
punctuation is another context clue .
a definition or a synonym is often set apart by parentheses , commas , dashes , or a colon .
you will learn to recognize these clues .
analyzing a word also helps you determine the meaning of a word .
compound words , prefixes , and suffixes are other context clues .
you will learn to recognize common prefixes and suffixes and how words are joined together .
if context clues can not help you determine the meaning of a word , you can use a dictionary designed for learners of english .
you will learn dictionary skills to help you choose the correct definition of a word .
you will also learn about word families .
these are the different parts of speech noun , verb , adjective , and adverb that share a similar meaning .
the book presents charts with example sentences for each part of speech .
the word family charts include the most common forms as well as multiple forms .
in essential words for the ielts you will practice one very effective vocabulary strategy that will improve your comprehension .
this effective strategy is to use a word four ways .
read the word , write the word , listen to the word , and speak the word .
every activity in each chapter will help you develop this skill .
when you learn a new word , you should practice the same strategy .
if you hear a new word , write the new word in a sentence .
read the sentence to yourself .
say the sentence aloud .
every chance you get , review the words you are learning .
say them , write them , read them , and listen to them .
you must make a commitment to study english .
sign a contract with yourself .
you should never break a contract especially a contract with yourself .
print your name below on line .
write the time you will spend each week studying english on lines .
think about how much time you have to study every day and every week , and make your schedule realistic .
sign your name and date the contract on the last line .
at the end of each week , add up your hours .
did you meet the requirements of your contract ?
my ielts study contract .
i promise to study for the ielts .
i will begin my study with , and i will also study english on my own .
i understand that to improve my english i need to spend time on english .
i promise to study english a week .
i promise to learn new words every day .
i will spend hours a week listening to english .
i will spend hours a week writing english .
i will spend hours a week speaking english .
i will spend hours a week reading english .
this is a contract with myself .
i promise to fulfill the terms of this contract .
migration is the regular movement of animals between their breeding grounds and the areas that they inhabit during the rest of the year .
many types of animals migrate , but bird migration in particular has fascinated observers for centuries .
migration is an excellent example of how nature has responded to the biological imperative for species to evolve and spread out into all possible ecological niches that can provide the conditions necessary for species to breed and raise young .
the most common form of bird migration involves traveling to higher latitudes to breed during the warm season and then returning to lower latitudes during the non breeding period .
this form of migration allows birds to breed in areas that provide optimal conditions for nesting and feeding their young .
the taklimakan desert second in size only to africas sahara desert , occupies some , square kilometers , square miles of northwestern china an area about the size of finland .
sparse rainfall , daily temperature swings of up to , and violent sandstorms make it one of the most extreme environments on earth .
eighty five percent of the taklimakan desert consists of shifting sand dunes , some up to meters tall , that are largely free of vegetation .
yet , transitional areas between the open desert and oases on the desert fringe support diverse plant forms that not only have adapted to the harsh conditions but actually thrive there .
successful desert plants are resilient to scorching summers and frigid winters , drought , and high salt conditions .
the plants principal defense against these environmental stressors consists of drawing in as much water as possible while minimizing moisture loss .
three taklimakan plants populus euphratica , tamarix ramosissima , and alhagi sparsifolia represent some of the most diverse , prolific vegetation in the area .
although they share many survival strategies , each has developed unique coping mechanisms of its own .
the euphrates poplar , populus euphratica , the only tall tree in the taklimakan ecosystem , has an extensive root system that allows it to absorb water far from the standing tree .
p. euphratica controls evaporation by opening and closing the stomata , or tiny pores , on the leaf surface in response to the amount of moisture being lost through the leaves to the surrounding air .
these stomata generally remain open during the day while the plant conducts photosynthesis .
p. euphratica can endure high salt concentrations in the soil .
it takes in unlimited amounts of salt through the roots , up the stem , and into leaves , where it dilutes the normally toxic salt by increasing the number and volume of its cells .
tamarix ramosissima , a small tree with needlelike leaves commonly known as tamarisk or salt cedar , takes in enormous amounts of water via a far reaching root system many times the size of the plant above ground .
like p. euphratica tamarisk can naturally determine when to close stomata to inhibit evaporation and regulate photosynthesis .
tamarisk has a high tolerance for salty conditions and even produces its own salt , which it accumulates in special glands between the leaves and then releases onto leaf surfaces .
leaves dropping to the ground make the soil more saline , or salty , giving tamarisk a competitive advantage over less salt tolerant plants .
alhagi sparsifolia , a spiny shrub , thrives in the taklimakan desert even though it uses large amounts of water , especially during the summer months .
with only a few wispy roots in the upper soil , it is unaffected by occasional flooding .
most of its roots reach down deep , where they take up water from as far as sixteen meters below ground .
unlike p. euphratica and t. ramosissima , which open and close stomata according to conditions on the leaf surface , a. sparsifolia does so according to hydraulic conductance that is , the ease with which it takes up groundwater .
although desert plants have adapted for their own survival , they also help protect their ecosystem by stabilizing sand dunes , preventing erosion , presenting a barrier to sandstorms , and conserving biodiversity .
from shipping crates to paper bags , the logging industry supplies the raw materials for an array of products .
however , this is not without untold harm to the environment .
the damage includes habitat loss , pollution , and climate change , with the effects spanning the globe from the rainforests of central africa , southeast asia , and south america to the northern forests of canada and scandinavia .
the effects of logging extend beyond just the feeling of a swath of trees .
nutrients , water , and shelter for plants , animals , and microorganisms throughout the ecosystem are also lost .
many life forms both terrestrial and aquatic are becoming endangered as forests vanish .
trees protect the soil beneath them .
thus , tree loss can affect soil integrity .
for example , the rainforest floor , home to myriad plant life as well as insects , worms , reptiles and amphibians , and small mammals , relies on a dense canopy of branches and leaves to keep it healthy and intact .
the canopy prevents surface runoff by intercepting heavy rainfall so that water can drip down slowly onto the porous earth .
tree roots also stabilize the soil and help prevent erosion .
in return , a healthy soil encourages root development and microbial activity , which contribute to tree growth and well being .
the circus is one of the oldest forms of entertainment in history .
although the modem circus has been around for a few centuries , related forms of public entertainment have been in existence for millennia .
the animal trainers , clowns , and other circus performers who are familiar to us today can trace their roots to the coliseums , stadiums , and racetracks of the ancient world .
the ancient romans were the first to enjoy the circus .
around the sixth century b.c , the circus maximus was founded in rome as a venue for public entertainment , mostly chariot races , which were a popular spectator sport .
although it may seem that people are working more , studies show that we have more leisure time than ever before .
yet researchers are reporting higher levels of both stress and obesity .
these reports appear to be a sign that we are not using our leisure time to our best advantage .
health experts agree that the best way to restore body and mind is to spend time in nature pursuing a comfortable level of physical exercise .
spending time in natural surroundings is especially crucial now because , for the first time , a majority of the worlds population live in cities .
focus in on something as small as a pin .
notice that everything else that fills your whole area of possible sight is indistinct , lacking in detail .
we tolerate this large outlying field of blur , this peripheral view , without taking note .
we unconsciously accept it .
sometimes we take charge of how we process all that blur surrounding the tiny center that our vision is focused on .
public transportation is an intrinsic part of every modem city .
many big cities have an underground rail system as their centerpiece .
three of the biggest and busiest underground rail systems in europe are in london , paris , and moscow .
the character of each city imprints its railways .
the first of these subways was londons underground , which opened in .
by that time , horses and pedestrians had so clogged the streets of london that city government ruled that no railroads could enter the city except underground .
the method used for laying the first underground tracks is called cut and cover , meaning the streets were dug up , the track was laid , a tunnel was built , and then everything was buried .
although the method was disruptive , it worked .
steam engines chugged under london , releasing steam through vents along the city streets .
in its initial day of operation , the london underground carried , passengers .
this cut and cover method caused massive disruptions in the city and required the destruction of the structures above the tunnel .
before electricity , light was tricky business .
flames cast limited light , are vulnerable to winds and weather and can lead to disaster .
making fire portable and dependable was so difficult that lights on moving vehicles were hardly ever considered .
the early trains traveled only during the day .
the tracks were too dangerous during the dark of night , and passengers wanted to see where they were traveling anyway .
in the late 1830s , railroad traffic became heavy enough for freight trains to delay passenger trains .
to avoid these delays , railroads started running freight trains at night .
horatio allens innovation , the track illuminator , was suddenly in demand .
it was a pile of pine knots burning in an iron grate that sat in a box of sand on a platform car .
cars have reshaped our world since they first rolled off mass production lines in the early twentieth century .
one and two thousand year old roman roads have been replaced by highways .
longer and wider bridges span rivers .
the sharp division between urban and rural landscapes has been replaced by suburban sprawl , town and country linked by eight lane expressways with stop and go traffic .
gas stations are everywhere .
countries with oil reserves are enormously rich and powerful .
after a century , the romance with internal combustion engines is on the wane .
as the price of oil rises , the reserves of irreplaceable oil are consumed , and exhaust fumes hamper life in urban areas , alternatives to gas powered vehicles are becoming more attractive .
ancient civilizations attributed the origins of writing to the gods .
for the ancient egyptians , their god thoth was the creator of writing and , in some stories , also the creator of speech .
the ancient sumerians and assyrians also believed that writing originated with certain gods , as did the ancient maya .
in chinese mythology , the creation of writing is attributed to an ancient sage and was used for communication with the gods .
clearly , writing was highly valued even by ancient peoples .
many people dream of visiting the beautiful hawaiian islands .
mention of this pacific paradise evokes images of women in grass skirts swaying their hips as they perform graceful island dances for the benefit of tourists .
although this image is a common stereotype of hawaii , it has its roots in a real tradition that continues to play an important role in hawaiian culture .
hula dancing has always been part of hawaiian life .
hawaiian mythology includes various stories that explain the origins of hula , each story attributing its creation to a different god or goddess and its first appearance to a different location .
miming dates back to the theaters of ancient greece and rome .
mimes use movements , gestures , and facial expressions to portray a character or an emotion or to tell a story all without words .
over the centuries , the art of miming grew to include acrobatics , props , and costumes , culminating in the fine tuned art form that people recognize today .
miming can be abstract , literal , or a combination of the two .
abstract miming usually has no plot or central character but simply expresses a feeling such as sorrow or desire .
on the other hand , literal miming tells a story and is often comedic .
using body gestures and facial expressions to present a main character facing some type of conflict in a humorous way .
for example , acting out a tug of war without the aid of rope or other props .
the twentieth century style of miming reflects outside influences of the period , most notably silent films .
in which actors relied on their ability to communicate thoughts and stories through facial expressions and exaggerated gestures .
two superstars of the silent movie era , buster keaton and charlie chaplin , sharpened their miming skills in the theater before using them in movies .
both were so successful that they have continued to influence mimes and other live performers long after their deaths .
people still consider chaplin a master of the miming technique , in particular , his tragicomic little tramp character , who so effectively portrays human frailty through physical comedy , also known as slapstick .
another twentieth century influence on modem miming involves a renowned french mime and acting teacher named etienne decroux , who developed what was known as corporeal mime .
this art form focused on the body , showing thought through movement , and became the prominent form of the modem mime era .
in the 1830s , decroux founded a mime school in paris based on corporeal mime .
one of his students , a young frenchman named marcel marceau , emerged as what many consider the master of modem mime .
marceau added his personal touch to the art of miming and presented it to the world for half a century on television and in theaters .
among his well known illusions are portrayals of a man walking against the wind and a man trapped inside a shrinking box .
marceau also created his own special character , bip the clown .
white faced and dressed in a striped shirt and floppy top hat with a red flower .
bip is reminiscent of both chaplins little tramp and pierrot , the traditional downtrodden mime character from centuries earlier .
a it takes years , and sometimes decades , for a drug to move from the theoretical stage to the pharmacy shelf .
of the thousands of drugs under investigation at any one time , only a small fraction will produce the desired result without unacceptable side effects .
b first , scientists target a step in the disease process where they believe a drug can have an effect .
then they manufacture compounds or take them from organisms such as viruses and fungi and test them in laboratory cultures .
once scientists isolate a chemical that produces a desirable effect , they analyze its structure and alter it as necessary to enhance the outcome .
the disease fighting , weight controlling benefits of physical exercise , especially aerobic exercise , have long been known .
now , researchers have discovered another advantage .
physical exercise has a powerful effect on brain health , and the benefits go beyond the release of endorphins , the chemical in the brain that improves mood .
exercise affects the brains plasticity that is , its ability to reorganize itself and can reduce the age associated loss of brain tissue that decreases cognition in the elderly and in those who have disorders such as alzheimers disease .
recent studies have found that exercise activates a number of factors in the brain , including a protein known as brain derived neurotrophic factor bdnf , that stimulate the growth and development of brain cells .
bdnf regulates the production of synapses , the connections between neurons that are essential for transmitting signals from one nerve cell to the next and may also be involved in producing new nerve cells .
there are more nurses today than at any time in history , yet a global nursing shortage threatens to cripple health care systems worldwide .
because the underlying causes are complex and vary in different regions , a simple , short term fix will not remedy the situation .
in developing nations particularly in sub saharan africa , south asia , and latin america a major reason for the shortage is nurse migration to developed countries in europe and north america as well as australia to help fill vacancies there .
nurse migration is hardly a recent phenomenon .
the philippines have for years trained many more nurses than the country needs , with thousands working abroad and sending money to relatives back home near ing billion annually .
from that standpoint , migration of nurses from poorer to wealthier countries would appear to benefit all involved .
but there is another side to the story .
today , even the philippines feels the effects of the nursing shortage , with nurses continuing to migrate abroad while positions at home go unfilled .
lured by the higher salaries and better quality of life available in wealthier countries , nurses from developing countries frequently leave behind already overburdened health care systems , where nurses are often the primary caregivers because doctors , too , are in short supply .
conditions then deteriorate further as the nurse to population ratio declines , a number that is estimated to be ten times higher in european than in african countries .
some latin american countries are experiencing such a shortage of nurses that doctors actually outnumber them , leaving the bulk of health care up to assistant nurses , who have only rudimentary training .
routine immunizations and prenatal care fall victim to the nursing shortage in developing countries , and in many cases the results can be life threatening .
in african countries where the hiv aids epidemic is ram pant , some patients go untreated not because lifesaving drugs are unavailable but because there are not enough nurses to administer them .
in developed countries in europe and north america , the nursing shortage largely stems from an aging population , who require more health care services , coupled with a dwindling supply of nurses , many of whom are likewise nearing retirement age , with fewer young people preparing to replace them .
a common thread among nurse importing countries underinvestment in nursing education dating back two or more decades has prevented them from creating a stable workforce to meet current and future needs .
the united kingdom , for example , still feels the effects of a cut back in nurse training some twenty years ago .
in the united states , nursing schools turn down thousands of qualified applicants every year because of their own shortages of nursing faculty .
developed countries need to invest in nursing education and focus on retaining and rewarding nurses appropriately , both financially and through high quality working conditions .
widespread nurse migration helps neither the host country nor the country of origin in the long run , does nothing to remedy the underlying cause of the shortage , and results in millions of people being deprived of the health care they need .
a couple spends a week in thailand learning to cook in the local style .
a group flies to turkey to join an ongoing archeological dig for the summer .
a history professor leads a tour of historical sites of europe .
the participants in these trips are all enjoying a different kind of travel .
learning vacations .
rather than spending their vacations relaxing on a beach or taking a bus tour of ten cities in eight days , they have opted to enjoy their time off by learning something new .
from attending summer camps for adults to studying botany in the rainforest , people everywhere are experiencing the value of a vacation with a purpose .
according to surveys , close to one third of travelers each year choose learning programs over other types of vacations , and their numbers are growing .
in the past , these types of vacations were generally considered to be for young people still in school .
a student of french might spend the summer studying that language in paris .
a marine biology major could learn to scuba dive and spend a few months at sea assisting researchers .
now , it has become common for adults , too , to spend their vacation time in educational endeavors , and various types of travel programs have grown up around this interest .
art schools and writing programs sponsor trips to interesting parts of the world .
trip participants hone their creative skills under the supervision of professional artists and writers while at the same time enjoying , for example , the warm breezes of the caribbean islands or the colorful villages of spain .
cooking is a popular hobby , and tour companies have developed trips that focus on the cuisine of different regions of the world .
travelers may learn all about how traditional meals are prepared and what ingredients are used .
or , for those who want to improve their abilities in the kitchen , they may actually receive hands on lessons , acquiring new skills that they can take home with them .
travelers to britain can enroll in courses at any of the twenty plus adult residential colleges around the country .
the courses at these schools generally last just a few days and range in content from activities such as photography and dancing to more serious subjects such as history , philosophy , and literature .
these are just a few examples of the many types of learning vacations that people enjoy every year .
in addition to gaining knowledge and skills , another advantage of these types of vacations is that they can be more economical than traditional vacations .
camping out near an archaeological site or sleeping in a college dormitory or youth hostel certainly costs less than staying at a luxury hotel or vacation resort .
and the fact that many of these trips can be organized by the travelers themselves without the services of a tour company or travel agency makes them even more economical .
of course , it all depends on the type of trip one chooses , and some companies offer learning vacations to exotic locales with expert professionals that are quite costly .
with the broad range of possibilities available , there are options to suit all tastes and budgets .
sitting high in the andes mountains in peru , the ancient ruins of machu picchu have captured the imaginations of travelers ever since they were rediscovered by archeologist hiram bingham in ..
the name machu picchu means old peak in the native incan language , and the site had probably been considered a sacred place since long before the ancient incas arrived there .
the incas built a ceremonial city on the site that included palaces , temples , storage rooms , baths , and houses , all constructed from heavy blocks of granite fitted precisely together .
although little is known about the activities that took place in the ancient city , it appears that one of its functions was as an astronomical observatory .
the so called intihuatana stone , located at the site , was used to mark the autumn and spring equinoxes as well as other astro nomical events .
the spectacular natural setting , the wonders of architectural and engineering skills embodied in the well preserved buildings , and the mysteries of the ancient culture draw thousands of tourists from around the world every year .
the nearest city is cuzco , about thirty miles away .
from there , tourists can take trains and buses to the ruins .
a popular route for the more adventurous is to hike along the inca trail .
the ancient inca created a network of trails throughout the mountains , some of which are still in existence .
the inca trail to machu picchu , used by hikers today , was likely considered a sacred route in its time , used by travelers making pilgrimages to that ceremonial site .
although the inca trail leads to the wonders of machu picchu .
it offers many marvels of its own .
hikers are treated to magnificent views of glacier covered peaks above and tropical valleys below in their jour ney over high mountain passes .
many species of orchids can be seen , as well as all kinds of birds , from tiny hummingbirds to the splendid andean condor .
the inca trail also passes by ruins of other ceremonial sites on the way to the grand destination of machu picchu .
tourists have been hiking the inca trail since the early part of the twentieth century , and for much of that time there were no regulations .
hikers could travel when they pleased and camp wherever they chose .
however , the trip has become so popular that in , the peruvian gov ernment instituted a set of restrictions on the use of the trail .
to protect the natural environment and preserve the ruins , no more than peo ple a day are allowed to enter the trail .
because each group that sets out includes guides and porters , the number of tourists entering the trail each day is probably closer to .
in addition , both tour companies and individual guides must be licensed .
there are also legal requirements that pertain to the minimum wage that porters must be paid as well as the maximum weight load they can be required to carry .
fees for trail use help pay for upkeep of the trail and the ruins .
all these regulations and fees combine for a more expensive trip , and this has made it a luxury accessible to fewer people .
the upside is that the environment and the workers are protected .
the concept of ecotourism has been gaining publicity over the past couple of decades .
it arose out of the green movement a growing interest in developing practices in all aspects of daily life that preserve rather than injure the natural environment .
ecotourists strive to have minimal impact on the places they visit , in terms of both the local ecology and the local culture .
some followers take the concept even further and define ecotourism as travel that aims not only to avoid harming the environment , but also to make a positive contribution to the local ecology and culture .
the types of vacations that fit into the category of ecotourism vary widely .
ecotourism might involve travel to a natural destination such as a national park or a nature preserve to learn about the natural environment and , in some cases , to volunteer on environmental protection projects .
it could be a few weeks spent with local artisans learning how to do a traditional craft .
trips that involve hiking or rafting through wilderness areas with no regard for the natural habitats one passes through would not be included in the definition of ecotourism .
neither , of course , would be trips with a focus on hunting .
ecotourists seek out accommodations that follow environmentally friendly practices such as using renewable resources and recycling .
ecotourists look for hotels and tour companies that hire mainly local staff , keeping tourist dollars within the local economy .
ecotourists might choose to join a bicycling or walking tour rather than a bus tour that adds to air pollution and allows tourists to see the local area only through a barrier of glass windows .
ecotourists often shun cruise ships , because these are among the biggest culprits in the tourism industry in terms of environmental pollution .
massive cruise ships release large quantities of harmful emissions into the air as well as pollute the waters they sail through with fuel from their engines .
the huge numbers of passengers on these ships generate many tons of garbage and wastewater , which is often dumped into the sea .
cruise ships also cause damage to coral reefs and other delicate ecosystems that they travel near .
perhaps in part because of the growing interest in ecotourism , some cruise companies are now making an effort to be more environmentally friendly .
these efforts include recycling wastes and using fuel more efficiently .
vacationers who are interested in ecotourism and still get pleasure from cruises can travel with cruise companies that follow these practices .
because of the growing interest in ecotourism , many companies advertise themselves as ecotourism companies , especially those that offer trips to remote , natural areas , the type of destination that ecotourists favor .
travelers need to be and do their research carefully .
not all of these companies follow the principles of ecotourism .
some are simply trying to take advantage of the current interest in this type of travel .
the positive side of this , however , is that it may actually be an indication that the movement is gaining in popularity .
from the neighborhood barber to the international conglomerate , most businesses have a common goal .
repeat customers .
developing a committed clientele can be more valuable than attracting new customers , whose loyalty to a companys products may be fleeting .
brand loyalty is a psychological bond that , once established , is difficult to reverse and it is more complicated than simply buying the same product time and again .
true brand loyalty differs from what some marketing researchers refer to as spurious loyalty a passive type of buying motivated by habit , convenience , price , and availability but not the result of any true loyalty or passion for the actual merchandise .
convincing consumers with spurious loyalty to try another brand can be quite easy .
outsourcing , subcontracting work to another company , has always been a part of doing business .
firms hire other firms to do work they can not do themselves or can have done more cheaply elsewhere .
with todays global economy , the practice is now so prevalent that even companies in the business of outsourcing are outsourcing work to others .
wealthy nations routinely send all types of work to countries where labor costs are cheaper , but currently the most frequently outsourced jobs are in information technology it , software , and customer service .
japan , western european countries , and the united states outsource the most work , and india and china take in the most .
language skills are a decisive factor in where work is sent , with india and the philippines serving english speaking clients , argentina working with spain , mexico serving spanish speakers in the united states , and china handling asian languages such as mandarin , cantonese , and korean .
as a preponderance of corporations conduct business in english , the bulk of outsourcing jobs in recent decades have gone to india , where its status as a former british colony resulted in millions of people speaking english as their first language .
about half of indias outsourcing work comes from the united states , with about a quarter from european countries and the remainder from countries such as japan and australia .
some of the largest outsourcing firms in the world have headquarters in india .
however , confronted with increasing demand , a looming shortage of skilled workers , and rising wages at home as the indian economy grows , some of those outsourcing companies are now turning to other countries to help meet their own staffing needs .
they outsource largely to china but also to dozens of other countries , including the philippines , mexico , brazil , saudi arabia , and , in some cases , the country where the work originated .
for example , a u.s. based software company might outsource it support to a company based in india , which then subcontracts part of the work to a company in the united states .
much of the it support market is now moving to china , where a vast supply of highly trained people are willing to work for lower wages than people in india .
with newer chinese companies not yet well established in the outsourcing business , indian firms are opening branches there , where their knowledge of english and well developed managerial skills give them an advantage , at least for now , in dealing with international clients .
outsourcing has long been a source of controversy , with opponents pointing to the loss of jobs and damage to the economy in the home country and proponents viewing the savings in labor costs as a boon to business .
the receiving countries generally consider the well paying jobs a benefit to their economy , but employees are not always happy with the work .
staff turnover can be high when employees have to work long night shifts to coincide with the business day in the outsourcing country .
india remains the outsourcing epicenter for now , with china slowly catching up , but the situation will continue to change .
once wages rise high enough in india and china , foreign workers somewhere else will be as enticing to outsourcing countries as india and china now are to europe , japan , and the united states .
the u.s. small business administration sba defines small businesses as those employing fewer than employees , and many are much smaller than that .
in the united states , about a third of small businesses employ fewer than twenty employees .
many thousands of new small businesses are started every year , but few survive .
in fact , according to the sba , one in three fails during the first two years , and only one in two survives beyond five years .
people start small businesses for a variety of reasons , but whatever the particular motivation certain characteristics make a small business more likely to succeed .
business advisers point to the importance of finding a niche .
it is difficult for a small business to compete with the array of products or services a large business can offer .
instead , the small business that has defined what is unique about the product or service it provides has a greater chance of success .
a small business can offer customers personalized service and specialized products or knowledge that can be more difficult to find in a large chain store , for example .
related to the concept of finding a niche is the importance of maintaining a competitive edge .
to be successful , a business has to look at what its competitors , whether large or small , are doing and find a way to stay ahead of the game .
in addition to offering a specialized product or service , a business that has more efficient production or distribution systems , a better location , or a reputation for excellence in customer service can do well in a competitive market .
research and planning are vital steps in setting up a small business .
it is essential to determine who the potential customers are and the best way to reach them .
it is also necessary to develop a sound business plan that , among other things , shows how the business will make a profit and projects the cash flow that will help the business stay afloat .
naturally , a successful small business starts out with proper financial support .
in addition to the costs of starting the business , there are also the costs of running it until it starts turning a profit .
typically , a small business takes one to two years to become profitable .
during that time , there are still expenses that have to be met .
rent has to be paid , employees have to be paid their wages , and supplies have to be bought .
if plans have not been made for supporting the costs of the business until it brings in a profit inevitably , it will fail .
one important tip is to start small .
this allows owners the opportunity to learn little by little without making huge costly mistakes .
working alone in ones basement during the initial phases of the business , for example , costs a great deal less than renting a space and hiring staff .
if the business generates less income than expected or if the market needs to be redefined , the financial losses will be much less if expenses have been kept to a minimum .
about half of private sector employees in the united states work for small businesses .
this number is even greater in other parts of the world .
successful small businesses make important contributions to the economy everywhere .
as many as 650 million people worldwide live with some form of physical disability , and about 100 million of the disabled need a wheelchair at least part of the time .
industrialized , higher income nations in asia , europe , and north america are seeing an older population grow more incapacitated as they age , whereas in lower income countries of africa , asia , and latin america , poverty , conflict , injuries , and accidents account for most disabilities , many of them in children .
wheelchairs provide a more independent lifestyle , but they come with their own set of problems .
they are wide , unwieldy , and difficult to maneuver in tight spaces , on slippery surfaces , and on steep slopes not to mention impassable stair steps .
accessibility issues abound at home , work , and school , in recreation activities .
and in transportation .
one of the most difficult places to use a wheelchair is the home .
the average doorway width of about 76 centimeters 30 inches falls some 5 to 15 centimeters 2 to 6 inches short of the space necessary to accommodate a wheelchair .
to be accessible to a person in a wheelchair , bathrooms require grab bars in showers and tubs , built in shower seats , lower sinks and mirrors , and higher toilet seats .
kitchens need lower counters and shelves as well as accessible switches for lights , garbage disposals , and exhaust fans .
also , because most homes have at least a few steps , a wheelchair ramp is a must .
many countries have laws requiring public buildings workplaces , stores , restaurants , and entertainment and sports facilities to be wheelchair accessible .
to accommodate wheelchairs , building exteriors need wide sidewalks with curb cuts and ramps .
automatic doors , including those on elevators , must be broad and remain open long enough for a person in a wheelchair to come and go with ease .
in a building interior , corridors must be wide enough for a person in a wheel chair and another person on foot to pass side by side , and carpeting should be firm enough for wheelchairs to roll over easily .
restrooms must be wheelchair accessible , too .
although many countries have made these improvements , many more have yet to follow their example .
with appropriate technology , some wheelchair users can drive cars , although getting in and out of a vehicle while in a wheelchair usually necessitates a portable ramp .
many cities have subway and bus systems that accommodate wheelchairs , and the list is growing .
for example , beijing updated its subway system for the 2008 olympics , providing disabled riders there access to it for the first time .
in most developing countries , a major concern is not so much wheel chair accessibility as access to a wheelchair .
growing public awareness is contributing to less expensive types of wheelchairs being designed for specific environments for example , chairs capable of maneuvering across dirt roads and rugged terrain but lightweight and compact so they can fold up to fit in crowded spaces , such as the aisle of a bus .
these wheelchairs also must be affordable and constructed of locally available materials for easy repair .
the number of people needing a wheelchair is expected to increase by 22 percent over the next decade , with most of the increase coming in developing countries , where fewer than 1 percent of those in need now have access to one .
generations of women struggled for the right to pursue careers in science and technology , yet today nearly half the women scientists in europe and the americas leave their careers .
the difference in numbers between men and women who advance and persist in their fields can not be attributed to race , ethnic , or social group .
the dire consequences of this loss may become more acute as the number of women entering science careers increases .
since the 1990s , more women than men have enrolled in college , earned higher grades , and majored in science or technology fields .
if the trend continues and more than half these women leave their careers by their mid forties , approximately one third of all scientists will leave their careers in the next twenty years .
so why are women leaving the science careers they worked so hard to attain ?
studies by academic and professional associations show the causes for the loss of this valuable resource are threefold .
time , family responsibilities , and lack of role models .
high level jobs in science , in both the corporate and the academic world , require inordinate amounts of time .
with increased use of the internet , cell phones , and other electronic forms of communication , scientists are not only required to be in the lab or office ten to twelve hours a day , but expected to be available the rest of the time , too .
professional time demands are the same for both men and women , but many more women opt out than men because of significant issues that men do not face .
although women are nearing equality in the professional world , the pressures of caring for family still rests largely with women .
according to studies , professional women with children still bear the majority of the responsibilities at home .
they spend more time with the children and on taking care of the home than men .
biology dictates that women require extended leaves of absence when they are pregnant and give birth , yet to advance in their careers , women can not afford to take time off until their late thirties , when the optimal time for having healthy babies is ending .
women can devote the necessary attention to neither career nor home life , often creating intense frustration .
discrepancies in opportunities and salaries still exist between the sexes .
because there are fewer female role models in the upper levels of science and technology fields , women have fewer mentors , who provide invaluable support .
without mentors , women in the sciences go without the support , guidance , and networking needed to lead them through the complications of corporate culture , to validate their ideas and secure funding for research , and to access those who can help them progress in their careers .
mentors also help scientists develop business expertise .
mentored scientists hold more patents , an important source of wealth .
women hold only 14 percent of new patents awarded .
without mentors , women have to work harder to reach the same goals as men , and all the while , many women are still paid less than men for commensurate work .
to keep women scientists in the workforce , some companies are instituting mentoring programs , on site child care , flex time , and other innovative accommodations .
unfortunately , many companies are content to outsource or to bring in men from other countries to fill positions that valuable but frustrated women scientists leave behind .
during the first decade of the twenty first century , the phenomenon of social networking on the internet exploded across the globe .
online social networking sites are websites that allow people to post personal information about themselves and to connect with people who have similar interests .
it is a way of forming community , but a community that exists online rather than in physical space .
facebook , myspace , linkedln , and twitter are examples of some of the most commonly used social networking sites .
recent statistics show that 75 percent of internet users around the world use social networking sites to some extent and that 22 percent of all time spent online is spent on these sites .
what is a gifted child ?
there are different ways to define this term .
it may refer to special talents in the arts or to a high level of academic abilities .
a child may be gifted in one specific area , such as music , or have talents in many areas .
according to the u.s national association for gifted children , a gifted child shows an exceptional level of perform ance in one or more areas .
in general usage , giftedness includes high levels of cognitive ability , motivation , inquisitiveness , creativity , and leadership .
there are three basic types of classroom learning styles .
visual , auditory , and kinesthetic .
these learning styles describe the most common ways that people learn .
individuals tend to instinctively prefer one style over the others .
thus each person has a learning style that is dominant even though he or she may also rely somewhat on the other approaches at different times and in different circumstances .
visual learners prefer to sit somewhere in the classroom where no obstructions hinder their view of the lesson .
they rely on the teachers facial expressions and body language to aid their learning .
educating children at home as an alternative to formal education is an option chosen by families in many parts of the world .
the homeschooling movement is popular in the united states , where close to one million children are educated at home .
in canada , 1 percent 1 of school age children are homeschooled , and the idea also enjoys rowing popularity in australia , where 20,000 families homeschool their children .
the movement is not limited to these countries .
homeschooling families can be found all over the world , from japan to taiwan to argentina to south africa .
homeschooling is not a novel idea .
in fact , the idea of sending children to spend most of their day away from home at a formal school is a relatively new custom .
in fact , he was just one inventor among many involved in the process of moving the concept of incandescent light from inspiration to marketable reality .
what he actually invented in 1879 was a carbon filament that lasted for forty hours .
in 1880 , he improved his idea , producing a filament derived from bamboo that burned for 1,200 hours .
the first person to successfully produce light with electricity was humphry davy , who connected a carbon filament to a battery in 1809 .
other inventors worked on refinements of this idea .
until the late 1920s , airplane propellers were made of a single piece of wood attached at the center to the driveshaft of the engine .
the tilt of the propeller , that is , how flatly it faced the wind , was fixed , which meant planes flew as if they had only one gear .
if the plane had a fine propeller , it traveled the entire time as if in first gear , working well on takeoff and landing but working inefficiently during sustained flight .
if the plane had a thick , coarse propeller , it traveled the entire time as if in high gear , working efficiently during sustained flight , but making takeoffs and landings dangerous and prolonged .
this inflexibility meant that commercial uses of such aircraft were limited because the planes could not carry heavy loads either safely or efficiently .
in 1922 , wallace rupert turnbull patented his latest invention , the variable pitch propeller .
his propeller in effect gave airplanes gears .
the propellers blades were separate from each other , attached at the driveshaft in the center , and could be moved independently or together to chop the air at different angles .
the propellers could be tilted at takeoff and landing to act as if in first gear , chopping less air with each rotation , and could be tilted when cruising to act as if in high gear , chopping more air with each rotation .
with this variable pitch propeller , planes could now take off and land more safely and reliably , carry varying weights , and handle greater variations in wind speed and turbulence .
turnbull was bom in new brunswick in eastern canada in 1876 .
he studied mechanical engineering at cornell , then continued his post graduate studies in europe , and returned to work at the edison labs in new jersey .
in 1902 , just one year before the wright brothers made their historic flight , turnbull went back home , set up his own lab in a barn , and started running his own aviation experiments .
to begin , turnbull needed a wind tunnel .
he built a wind tunnel , the first in the world , out of packing materials .
in it , he tested different designs for propellers and wings .
his research is the basis for many of the successful designs still in use today .
alone in his barn , turnbull designed and tested his variable pitch propeller .
it was tested successfully in flight in borden , ontario , on june 6 , 1927 .
turnbull spent his life experimenting and designing for the new science of aviation in his barn in rothesay .
he sometimes conferred with fellow aviation enthusiast alexander graham bell in nova scotia , but for the most part , he worked in isolation .
unlike most engineers , he chose not to work in a university laboratory or in a lab such as edison s , where he would have been supported by like minded engineers and physicists .
instead , he spent his adult life in a barn he equipped himself .
depending only on his intelligence , curiosity , and work ethic , he revolutionized flight .
he is honored in canada as a pioneer in aviation and a genius in the study of aerodynamics .
laying the transatlantic cable was the culmination of the unflagging perseverance of one man leading like minded men , of disparate technical and scientific advances , and of the need for faster communication .
the first attempts at laying the cable in the 1850s , each of which cost an enormous amount of money , failed utterly .
yet as technology and science improved , and the need for faster communication increased , perseverance finally paid off .
the man who rallied support and raised money for the transatlantic cable venture was cyrus field , a new york businessman , who started the new york , newfoundland , and london telegraph company in 1854 .
for the next twelve years , field raised money and expectations in north america and england for repeated attempts at laying a cable , despite catastrophic cable breaks and a formal inquiry when the first cable stopped working within days .
the scientific and technological advances began with electricity , the study of which was attracting the greatest minds of the age .
samuel morse invented a code that made it possible to send information over electric wires , and he made the first successful transmission in 1842 .
the next year , dalameida , a portuguese engineer , announced the use of gutta percha , a rubberlike sap from the gutta tree , as an insulation for wires .
thus , two of the requisites for an underwater cable were met .
in the next several years , telegraph cables were laid in atlantic canada , across the english channel and around europe , and across the united states .
in 1857 , the company field founded set out to lay the cable that had taken months and almost a million dollars to make .
the cable was made of 340,000 miles of copper and iron wire and three tons of gutta percha insulation , too much for one ship to carry .
the cable was divided between two ships , each towed by another , all four provided by the british and american navies .
after only 255 miles of cable had been laid , the cable stopped transmitting and then snapped , sinking to the depths of the ocean .
the second attempt was made in 1858 , beginning at the midpoint of the atlantic , from which each ship lay cable as she sailed to her home shores .
again , the cable inexplicably stopped working .
they tried again a month later , beginning again from the middle and sailing in opposite directions .
this time , success !
queen victoria sent a message to president buchanan , and both countries celebrated .
within hours , however , the signal began failing .
to compensate for the fading transmissions , whitehouse , the american engineer , transmitted messages at higher voltages , eventually burning out the cable .
once a hero , field was now vilified .
work on the transatlantic cable was halted because of the american civil war .
during the war , the telegraph became indispensable , and enthusiasm for a transatlantic cable mounted .
in scotland , william thomson , who would later be knighted lord kelvin for his work , corrected the design flaws in whitehouses cable .
kelvin also designed a mirror galvanometer that could detect weak currents , thus allowing lower voltages and weaker currents to transmit information .
in 1866 , the worlds largest steamship laid kelvins new cable , an unqualified success .
fields perseverance had triumphed in the end .
fossil fuels are currently the worlds primary energy source , yet it also has many negative impacts .
while some consider alternative energy sources a good solution , i think there is still room for debate .
environmentally , combustion of fossil fuels generates carbon dioxide and the likes , which become acid in the rain , damaging living things and human construction .
carbon dioxide is also the main contributor to global warming .
smog from fossil fuel exhaust can cause respiratory illnesses .
some people think that governments should give financial support to creative artists such as painters and musicians .
others believe that creative artists should be funded by alternative sources .
discuss both views and give your own opinion .
people have different views about the funding of creative artists .
while some people disagree with the idea of government support for artists , i believe that money for art projects should come from both governments and other sources .
some art projects definitely require help from the state .
in the uk , there are many works of art in public spaces , such as streets or squares in city centres .
in liverpool , for example , there are several new statues and sculptures in the docks area of the city , which has been redeveloped recently .
these artworks represent culture , heritage and history .
they serve to educate people about the city , and act as landmarks or talking points for visitors and tourists .
governments and local councils should pay creative artists to produce this kind of art , because without their funding our cities would be much less interesting and attractive .
on the other hand , i can understand the arguments against government funding for art .
the main reason for this view is that governments have more important concerns .
for example , state budgets need to be spent on education , healthcare , infrastructure and security , among other areas .
these public services are vital for a country to function properly , whereas the work of creative artists , even in public places , is a luxury .
another reason for this opinion is that artists do a job like any other professional , and they should therefore earn their own money by selling their work .
in conclusion , there are good reasons why artists should rely on alternative sources of financial support , but in my opinion government help is sometimes necessary .
some people think that strict punishments for driving offences are the key to reducing traffic accidents .
others , however , believe that other measures would be more effective in improving road safety .
discuss both these views and give your own opinion .
people have differing views with regard to the question of how to make our roads safer .
in my view , both punishments and a range of other measures can be used together to promote better driving habits .
on the one hand , strict punishments can certainly help to encourage people to drive more safely .
penalties for dangerous drivers can act as a deterrent , meaning that people avoid repeating the same offence .
there are various types of driving penalty , such as small fines , licence suspension , driver awareness courses , and even prison sentences .
it is true that some parents are overly permissive and tend to spoil their children .
in my opinion , this is not a good parenting style , and it can have a range of negative long term consequences .
if parents want to raise respectful and well behaved children , i believe that a certain amount of discipline is necessary .
having worked with children myself , i have learnt that clear expectations and boundaries are necessary , and it is important to be able to say no to children when they misbehave or try to push against these boundaries .
this is the only way to help young people to regulate their desires and develop self control .
in my view , parents who do the opposite and constantly give in to their childrens demands , are actually doing more harm than good .
they are failing their children rather than being kind to them .
the children of indulgent or lenient parents are likely to grow up with several negative personality traits .
the first and most obvious danger is that these children will become self centred adults who show little consideration for the feelings or needs of others .
one consequence of such an attitude could be that these adults are unable to work successfully in teams with other colleagues .
a second negative trait in such people could be impulsiveness .
a person who has never lived with any boundaries is likely to lack the patience to carefully consider options before making decisions .
this may lead , for example , to compulsive shopping , unwise financial decisions , or even criminal activity .
in conclusion , parents should help their children to develop self control .
and respect for others , and i do not believe that the permissive parenting style supports this objective .
there are many different types of music in the world today .
why do we need music ?
is the traditional music of a country more important than the international music that is heard everywhere nowadays ?
it is true that a rich variety of musical styles can be found around the world .
music is a vital part of all human cultures for a range of reasons .
and i would argue that traditional music is more important than modern , international music .
music is something that accompanies all of us throughout our lives .
as children , we are taught songs by our parents and teachers as a means of learning language , or simply as a form of enjoyment .
it is inevitable that traditional cultures will be lost as technology develops .
technology and traditional cultures are incompatible .
to what extent do you agree or disagree with this view ?
some people believe that technological developments lead to the loss of traditional cultures .
i partly agree with this assertion .
while it may be true in the case of some societies , others seem to be unaffected by technology and the modern world .
on the one hand , the advances in technology that have driven industrialisation in developed countries have certainly contributed to the disappearance of traditional ways of life .
for example , in pre industrial britain , generations of families grew up in the same small village communities .
these communities had a strong sense of identity , due to their shared customs and beliefs .
however , developments in transport , communications and manufacturing led to the dispersal of families and village communities as people moved to the cities in search of work .
nowadays most british villages are inhabited by commuters , many of whom do not know their closest neighbours .
on the other hand , in some parts of the world traditional cultures still thrive .
there are tribes in the amazon rainforest , for example , that have been completely untouched by the technological developments of the developed world .
these tribal communities continue to hunt and gather food from the forest , and traditional skills are passed on to children by parents and elders .
other traditional cultures , such as farming communities in parts of africa , are embracing communications technologies .
mobile phones give farmers access to information , from weather predictions to market prices , which helps them to prosper and therefore supports their culture .
in conclusion , many traditional ways of life have been lost as a result of advances in technology , but other traditional communities have survived and even flourished .
some people believe that hobbies need to be difficult to be enjoyable .
to what extent do you agree or disagree ?
some hobbies are relatively easy , while others present more of a challenge .
personally , i believe that both types of hobby can be fun , and i therefore disagree with the statement that hobbies need to be difficult in order to be enjoyable .
on the one hand , many people enjoy easy hobbies .
one example of an activity that is easy for most people is swimming .
this hobby requires very little equipment , it is simple to learn , and it is inexpensive .
i remember learning to swim at my local swimming pool when i was a child , and it never felt like a demanding or challenging experience .
another hobby that i find easy and fun is photography .
in my opinion , anyone can take interesting pictures without knowing too much about the technicalities of operating a camera .
despite being straightforward , taking photos is a satisfying activity .
on the other hand , difficult hobbies can sometimes be more exciting .
if an activity is more challenging , we might feel a greater sense of satisfaction when we manage to do it successfully .
for example , film editing is a hobby that requires a high level of knowledge and expertise .
in my case , it took me around two years before i became competent at this activity , but now i enjoy it much more than i did when i started .
i believe that many hobbies give us more pleasure when we reach a higher level of performance because the results are better and the feeling of achievement is greater .
in conclusion , simple hobbies can be fun and relaxing , but difficult hobbies can be equally pleasurable for different reasons .
some people regard video games as harmless fun , or even as a useful educational tool .
others , however , believe that videos games are having an adverse effect on the people who play them .
in your opinion , do the drawbacks of video games outweigh the benefits ?
many people , and children in particular , enjoy playing computer games .
while i accept that these games can sometimes have a positive effect on the user , i believe that they are more likely to have a harmful impact .
on the one hand , video games can be both entertaining and educational .
users , or gamers , are transported into virtual worlds which are often more exciting and engaging than real life pastimes .
people have different views about how governments should measure their countries progress .
while economic progress is of course essential , i agree with those who believe that other measures of progress are just as important .
there are three key reasons why economic growth is seen as a fundamental goal for countries .
firstly , a healthy economy results in job creation , a high level of employment , and better salaries for all citizens .
secondly , economic progress ensures that more money is available for governments to spend on infrastructure and public services .
for example , a government with higher revenues can invest in the countrys transport network , its education system and its hospitals .
some people believe that we should not help people in other countries as long as there are problems in our own society .
i disagree with this view because i believe that we should try to help as many people as possible .
on the one hand , i accept that it is important to help our neighbours and fellow citizens .
in most communities there are people who are impoverished or disadvantaged in some way .
it is possible to find homeless people , for example , in even the wealthiest of cities , and for those who are concerned about this problem , there are usually opportunities to volunteer time or give money to support these people .
in the uk , people can help in a variety of ways , from donating clothing to serving free food in a soup kitchen .
as the problems are on our doorstep , and there are obvious ways to help , i can understand why some people feel that we should prioritise local charity .
at the same time , i believe that we have an obligation to help those who live beyond our national borders .
in some countries the problems that people face are much more serious than those in our own communities , and it is often even easier to help .
for example , when children are dying from curable diseases in african countries , governments and individuals in richer countries can save lives simply by paying for vaccines that already exist .
a small donation to an international charity might have a much greater impact than helping in our local area ..
in conclusion , it is true that we can not help everyone , but in my opinion national boundaries should not stop us from helping those who are in need .
it is true that new technologies have had an influence on communication between people .
technology has affected relationships in various ways , and in my opinion there are both positive and negative effects .
technology has had an impact on relationships in business , education and social life .
firstly , telephones and the internet allow business people in different countries to interact without ever meeting each other .
secondly , services like skype create new possibilities for relationships between students and teachers .
many young people work on a volunteer basis , and this can only be beneficial for both the individual and society as a whole .
however , i do not agree that we should therefore force all teenagers to do unpaid work .
most young people are already under enough pressure with their studies , without being given the added responsibility of working in their spare time .
school is just as demanding as a full time job , and teachers expect their students to do homework and exam revision on top of attending lessons every day .
when young people do have some free time , we should encourage them to enjoy it with their friends or to spend it doing sports and other leisure activities .
they have many years of work ahead of them when they finish their studies .
at the same time , i do not believe that society has anything to gain from obliging young people to do unpaid work .
in fact , i would argue that it goes against the values of a free and fair society to force a group of people to do something against their will .
doing this can only lead to resentment amongst young people , who would feel that they were being used , and parents , who would not want to be told how to raise their children .
currently , nobody is forced to volunteer , and this is surely the best system .
in conclusion , teenagers may choose to work for free and help others , but in my opinion we should not make this compulsory .
in recent years it has become far more normal for people to live alone , particularly in large cities in the developed world .
in my opinion , this trend could have both positive and negative consequences in equal measure .
the rise in one person households can be seen as positive for both personal and broader economic reasons .
on an individual level , people to choose to live alone may become more independent and self reliant than those who live with family members .
a young adult who lives alone , for example , will need to learn to cook , clean , pay bills and manage his or her budge , all of which are valuable life skills .
an increase in the number of such individuals can certainly be seen as a positive development .
from an economic perspective , the trend towards living alone will result in greater demand for housing .
this is likely to benefit the construction industry , estate agents and a whole host of other companies that rely on homeowners to buy their products or services .
however , the personal and economic arguments given above can be considered from the opposite angle .
firstly , rather than the positive feeling of increased independence , people who live alone may experience feelings of loneliness , isolation , and worry .
they miss out on the emotional support and daily conversation that family or flatmates can provide , and they must bear the weight of all household bills and responsibilities .
in this sense , perhaps the trend towards living alone is a negative one .
secondly , from the financial point of view , a rise in demand for housing is likely to push up property prices and rents .
while this may benefit some businesses , the general population , including those who live alone , will be faced with rising living costs .
in conclusion , the increase in one person households will have both beneficial and detrimental effects on individuals and on the economy .
it is true that online courses are becoming a common feature of university education .
although there are some drawbacks of internet based learning , i would argue that there are far more benefits .
the main drawback of the trend towards online university courses is that there is less direct interaction .
students may not have the opportunity to engage face to face with their teachers , and will instead have to rely on written forms of communication .
similarly , students who study online do not come into direct contact with each other , and this could have a negative impact on peer support , discussion and exchange of ideas .
for example , whereas students on traditional courses can attend seminars and even discuss their subjects over coffee after lessons , online learners are restricted to chatting through website forum areas .
these learners may also lack the motivation and element of competition that face to face group work brings .
despite the negatives mentioned above , i believe that online university courses are a positive development for various reasons .
firstly , they allow learners to study in a flexible way , meaning that they can work whenever and wherever is convenient , and they can cover the material at their own pace .
secondly , the cost of a university education can be greatly reduced , while revenues for institutions may increase as more students can be taught .
finally , online learning offers open access to anybody who is willing to study , regardless of age , location , ability and background .
for example , my uncle , who is 65 years old , has recently enrolled on an online mba course in a different country , which would have been impossible in the days before internet based education .
in conclusion , while i recognise the possible disadvantages of online learning , i consider it to be a positive development overall .
it is no doubt true that the majority of people would like to be happy in their lives .
while the personal nature of happiness makes it difficult to describe , there do seem to be some common needs that we all share with regard to experiencing or achieving happiness .
happiness is difficult to define because it means something different to each individual person .
nobody can fully understand or experience another persons feelings , and we all have our own particular passions from which we take pleasure .
some people , for example , derive a sense of satisfaction from earning money or achieving success , whereas for others , health and family are much more important .
at the same time , a range of other feelings , from excitement to peacefulness , may be associated with the idea of happiness , and the same person may therefore feel happy in a variety of different ways .
several languages are in danger of extinction because they are spoken by very small numbers of people .
some people say that governments should spend public money on saving these languages , while others believe that would be a waste of money .
discuss both these view and give your opinion .
it is true that some minority languages may disappear in the near future .
although it can be argued that governments could save money by allowing this to happen , i believe that these languages should be protected and preserved .
nowadays animal experiments are widely used to develop new medicines and to test the safety of other products .
some people argue that these experiments should be banned because it is morally wrong to cause animals to suffer , while others are in favour of them because of their benefits to humanity .
discuss both views and give your own opinion .
it is true that medicines and other products are routinely tested on animals before they are cleared for human use .
while i tend towards the viewpoint that animal testing is morally wrong , i would have to support a limited amount of animal experiment for the development of medicines .
on the other hand , there are clear ethical arguments against animal experimentation .
to use a common example of this practice , laboratory mice may be given an illness so that the effectiveness of a new drug can be measured .
opponents of such research argue that humans have no right to subject animals to this kind of trauma , and that the lives of all creatures should be respected .
they believe that the benefits to humans do not justify the suffering caused , and that scientists should use alternative methods of research .
on the other hand , reliable alternatives to animal experimentation may not always be available .
supporters of the use of animals in medical research believe that a certain amount of suffering on the part of mice or rats can be justified if human lives are saved .
they argue that opponents of such research might feel differently if a member of their own families needed a medical treatment that had been developed through the use of animal experimentation .
personally , i agree with the banning of animals testing for non medical products , but i feel that it may be a necessary evil where new drugs and medical procedures are concerned .
in conclusion , it seems to me that it would be wrong to ban testing on animals for vital medical research until equally effective alternatives have been developed .
some people think that instead of preventing climate change , we need to find a way to live with it .
to what do you agree or disagree ?
climate change represents a major threat to life on earth , but some people argue that we need to accept it rather than try to stop it .
i completely disagree with this opinion , because i believe that we will still have time to tackle this issue and reduce the human impact on the earths climate .
there are various measures that governments and individuals could take to prevent , or at least mitigate , climate change .
governments could introduce laws to limit the carbon dioxide emissions that lead to global warming .
in the developed world , average life expectancy is increasing .
what problem will this cause for individuals and society ?
suggest some measures that could be taken to reduce the impact of ageing populations .
it is true that people in industrialized nations can expect to live longer than ever before .
although there will undoubtedly be some negative consequences of this trend , societies can take steps to mitigate these potential problems .
as people live longer and the populations of developed countries grow older , several related problems can be anticipated .
the main issue is that there will obviously be more people of retirement age who will be eligible to receive a penson .
the proportion of younger , working adults will be smaller , and governments will therefore receive less money in taxes in relation to the size of population .
in other words , an ageing population will mean a greater tax burden for working adults .
further pressures will include a rise in the demand for healthcare , and the fact that young adults will increasingly have to look after their elderly relatives .
there are several actions that governments could take to solve the problems described above .
firstly , a simple solution would be to increase the retirement age for working adults , perhaps from 65 to 70 .
nowadays , people of this age tend to be healthy enough to continue a productive working life .
a second measure would be for governments to encourage immigration in order to increase the number of working adults who pay taxes .
finally , money from national budgets will need to be taken from other areas and spent on vital healthcare , accommodation and transport facilities for the rising numbers of older citizens .
in conclusion , various measures can be taken to tackle the problems that are certain to arise as the populations of countries grow older .
in many cities the use of video cameras in public places is being increased in order to reduce crime , but some people believe that these measures restrict our individual freedom .
do the benefits of increased security outweigh the drawbacks ?
it is true that video surveillance has become commonplace in many cities in recent years .
while i understand that critics may see this as an invasion of privacy , i believe that the benefits do outweigh the drawbacks .
there are two main reasons why people might disapprove of the use of video cameras in public places .
the first objection is that these cameras invade our privacy , in the sense that we are constantly being watched by the authorities or by private security firms .
many people find this intrusive and feel that the recording of their movements is a form of state control that curtails their individual freedom .
the second argument against the proliferation of cctv cameras is that they are being used as an alternative to police officers patrolling the streets .
if this is indeed happening , then it is unlikely that members of the public will feel safer .
in spite of the drawbacks mentioned above , i believe that the use of video cameras to monitor public areas is a positive measure .
the key objective of video surveillance is to deter criminals and to prevent crime .
for example , petty criminals like shoplifters and pickpockets are less likely to operate in parts of cities where they know that they are being watched .
at the same time , when crimes are committed , the police can use video evidence to catch and prosecute offenders .
therefore , in my view , video cameras offer valuable support to police officers , and they make cities safer for inhabitants , workers and visitors alike .
in conclusion , it seems to me that we gain more than we lose from the enhanced security that cctv cameras bring to our cities .
some people believe that school children should not be given homework by their teachers , whereas others argue that homework plays an important role in the education of children .
discuss both of these views and give your own opinion .
peoples opinions differ as to whether or not school children should be given homework .
while there are some strong arguments against the setting of homework , i still believe that it is a necessary aspect of education .
there are several reasons why people might argue that homework is an unnecessary burden on children .
firstly , there is evidence to support the idea that homework does nothing to improve educational outcomes .
countries such as finland , where school children are not given homework , regularly top international educational league tables and outperform nations where setting homework is the norm .
secondly , many parents would agree that the school day is already long enough , and leaves their children too tired to do further study when they return home .
finally , it is recognised that play time is just as beneficial as study time from the perspective of brain development .
in spite of the above arguments , i support the view that homework has an important role to play in the schooling of children ..
the main benefit of homework is that it encourages independent learning and problem solving , as children are challenged to work through tasks alone and at their own pace .
in doing so , students must apply the knowledge that they have learnt in the classroom .
for example , by doing mathematics exercises at home , students consolidate their understanding of the concepts taught by their teacher at school .
in my view , it is important for children to develop an independent study habit because this prepares them to work alone as adults .
in conclusion , homework certainly has its drawbacks , but i believe that the benefits outweigh them in the long term .
some people claim that not enough of the waste from homes is recycled .
they say that the only way to increase recycling is for governments to make it a legal requirement .
to what extent do you think laws are needed to make people recycle more of their waste ?
it is true that we do not recycle enough of our household waste .
although i accept that new legislation to force people to recycle could help this situation , i do not agree that a recycling law is the only measure that governments should take .
in my view , a new recycling law would be just one possible way to tackle the waste problem .
foreign visitors should pay more than local visitors for cultural and historical attractions .
to what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion ?
it is sometimes argued that tourists from overseas should be charged more than local residents to visit important sites and monuments .
i completely disagree with this idea .
the argument in favour of higher prices for foreign tourists would be that cultural or historical attractions often depend on state subsidies to keep them going , which means that the resident population already pays money to these sites through the tax system .
however , i believe this to be a very shortsighted view .
foreign tourists contribute to the economy of the host country with the money they spend on a wide range of goods and services , including food , souvenirs , accommodation and travel .
the governments and inhabitants of every country should be happy to subsidise important tourist sites and encourage people from the rest of the world to visit them .
if travellers realised that they would have to pay more to visit historical and cultural attractions in a particular nation , they would perhaps decide not to go to that country on holiday .
to take the uk as an example , the tourism industry and many related jobs rely on visitors coming to the country to see places like windsor castle or saint pauls cathedral .
these two sites charge the same price regardless of nationality , and this helps to promote the nations cultural heritage .
if overseas tourists stopped coming due to higher prices , there would be a risk of insufficient funding for the maintenance of these important buildings .
in conclusion , i believe that every effort should be made to attract tourists from overseas , and it would be counterproductive to make them pay more than local residents .
some people think that all university students should study whatever they like .
others believe that they should only be allowed to study subjects that will be useful in the future , such as those related to science and technology .
discuss both these views and give your own opinion .
people have different views about how much choice students should have with regard to what they can study at university .
while some argue that it would be better for students to be forced into certain key subject areas , i believe that everyone should be able to study the course of their choice .
there are various reasons why people believe that universities should only offer subjects that will be useful in the future .
they may assert that university courses like medicine , engineering and information technology are most likely to be beneficial than certain art degrees .
from a personal perspective , it can be argued that these courses provide more job opportunities , career progression , better salaries , and therefore an improved quality of life for students who take them .
on the societal level , by forcing people to choose particular university subjects , governments can ensure that any knowledge and skill gaps in the economy are covered .
finally , a focus on technology in higher education could lead to new inventions , economic growth , and greater future prosperity .
in spite of these arguments , i believe that university students should be free to choose their preferred areas of study .
in my opinion , society will benefit more if our students are passionate about what they are learning .
besides , nobody can really predict which areas of knowledge will be most useful to society in the future , and it may be that employers begin to value creative thinking skills above practical or technical skills .
if this were the case , perhaps we would need more students of art , history and philosophy than of science or technology .
in conclusion , although it might seem sensible for universities to focus only on the most useful subjects , i personally prefer the current system in which people have the right to study whatever they like .
most people have forgotten the meaning behind traditional or religious festivals .
during festival periods , people nowadays only want to enjoy themselves .
to what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion ?
some people argue that we no longer remember the original meaning of festivals , and that most of us treat them as opportunities to have fun .
while i agree that enjoyment seems to be the priority during festival times , i do not agree that people have forgotten what these festivals mean .
on the one hand , religious and traditional festivals have certainly become times for celebration .
in the uk , christmas is a good example of a festival period when people are most concerned with shopping , giving and receiving presents , decorating their homes and enjoying traditional meals with their families .
most people look forward to christmas as a holiday period , rather than a time to practise religion .
similar behaviour can be seen during non religious festivals , such as bonfire night .
people associate this occasion with making fires , watching firework displays , and perhaps going to large events in local parks .
in other words , enjoyment is peoples primary goal .
however , i disagree with the idea that the underlying meaning of such festivals has been forgotten .
in uk primary schools , children learn in detail about the religious reasons for celebrating christmas , easter and a variety of festivals in other religions .
for example , in late december , children sing christmas songs which have a religious content , and they may even perform nativity plays telling the story of jesus birth .
families also play a role in passing knowledge of religious festivals deeper significance on to the next generation .
the same is true for festivals that have a historical background , such as bonfire night or halloween , in the sense that people generally learn the stories behind these occasions at an early age .
in conclusion , although people mainly want to enjoy themselves during festivals , i believe that they are still aware of the reasons for these celebrations .
in many countries , a small number of people earn extremely high salaries .
some people believe that this is good for the country , but others think that governments should not allow salaries above a certain level .
discuss both these views and give your own opinion .
people have different views about whether governments should introduce a maximum wage .
while in some ways it may seem reasonable to allow people to earn as much as companies are willing to pay , i personally believe that employee remuneration should be capped at a certain level .
there are various reasons why it might be considered beneficial to allow people to be paid extremely high salaries .
as well as making money , businesses also have social responsibilities .
to what extent do you agree or disagree ?
businesses have always sought to make a profit , but it is becoming increasingly common to hear people talk about the social obligations that companies have .
i completely agree with the idea that businesses should do more for society than simply make money .
on the one hand , i accept that businesses must make money in order to survive in a competitive world .
it seems logical that the priority of any company should be to cover its running costs , such as employees wages and payments for buildings and utilities .
on top of these costs , companies also need to invest in improvements and innovations if they wish to remain successful .
if a company is unable to pay its bills or meet the changing needs of customers , any concerns about social responsibilities become irrelevant .
in other words , a company can only make a positive contribution to society if it is in good financial health .
on the other hand , companies should not be run with the sole aim of maximising profit .
they have a wider role to play in society .
one social obligation that owners and managers have is to treat their employees well , rather than exploiting them .
for example , they could pay a living wage to ensure that workers have a good quality of life .
i also like the idea that businesses could use a proportion of their profits to support local charities , environmental projects or education initiatives .
finally , instead of trying to minimise their tax payments by using accounting loopholes , i believe that company bosses should be happy to contribute to society through the tax system .
in conclusion , i believe that companies should place as much importance on their social responsibilities as they do on their financial objectives .
many people prefer to watch foreign films rather than locally produced films .
why could this be ?
should governments give more financial support to local film industries ?
it is true that foreign films are more popular in many countries than domestically produced films .
there could be several reasons why this is the case , and i believe that governments should promote local film making by subsidising the industry .
there are various reasons why many people find foreign films more enjoyable than the films produced in their own countries .
firstly , the established film industries in certain countries have huge budgets for action , special effects and to shoot scenes in spectacular locations .
hollywood blockbusters like avatar or the james bond films are examples of such productions , and their global appeal is undeniable .
another reason why these big budget films are so successful is that they often star the most famous actors and actresses , and they are made by the most accomplished producers and directors .
the poor quality , low budget filmmaking in many countries suffers in comparison .
in my view , governments should support local film industries financially .
in every country , there may be talented amateur film makers who just need to be given the opportunity to prove themselves .
to compete with big budget productions from overseas , these people need money to pay for film crews , actors and a host of other costs related to producing high quality films .
if governments did help with these costs , they would see an increase in employment in the film industry , income from film sales , and perhaps even a rise in tourist numbers .
new zealand , for example , has seen an increase in tourism related to the lord of the rings films , which were partly funded by government subsidies .
in conclusion , i believe that increased financial support could help to raise the quality of locally made films and allow them to compete with the foreign productions that currently dominate the market .
families who send their children to private schools should not be required to pay taxes that support the state education system .
to what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement ?
some people believe that parents of children who attend private schools should not need to contribute to state schools through taxes .
personally , i completely disagree with this view .
for a variety of reasons , it would be wrong to reduce taxes for families who pay for private education .
firstly , it would be difficult to calculate the correct amount of tax reduction for these families , and staff would be required to manage this complex process .
secondly , we all pay a certain amount of tax for public services that we may not use .
for example , most people are fortunate enough not to have to call the police or fire brigade at any time in their lives , but they would not expect a tax reduction for this .
finally , if wealthy families were given a tax discount for sending their children to private schools , we might have a situation where poorer people pay higher taxes than the rich .
in my opinion , we should all be happy to pay our share of the money that supports public schools .
it is beneficial for all members of society to have a high quality education system with equal opportunities for all young people .
this will result in a well educated workforce , and in turn a more productive and prosperous nation .
parents of children in private schools may also see the advantages of this in their own lives .
for example , a company owner will need well qualified and competent staff , and a well funded education system can provide such employees .
in conclusion , i do not believe that any financial concessions should be made for people who choose private education .
some people think that in the modern world we are more dependent on each other , while others think that people have become more independent .
discuss both views and give your own opinion .
people have different views about whether we are more or less dependent on others nowadays .
in my view , modern life forces us to be more independent than people were in the past .
there are two main reasons why it could be argued that we are more dependent on each other now .
firstly , life is more complex and difficult , especially because the cost of living has increased so dramatically .
for example , young adults tend to rely on their parents for help when buying a house .
property prices are higher than ever , and without help it would be impossible for many people to pay a deposit and a mortgage .
secondly , people seem to be more ambitious nowadays , and they want a better quality of life for their families .
this means that both parents usually need to work full time , and they depend on support from grandparents and babysitters for child care .
however , i would agree with those who believe that people are more independent these days .
in most countries , families are becoming smaller and more dispersed , which means that people can not count on relatives as much as they used to .
we also have more freedom to travel and live far away from our home towns .
for example , many students choose to study abroad instead of going to their local university , and this experience makes them more independent as they learn to live alone .
another factor in this growing independence is technology , which allows us to work alone and from any part of the world .
in conclusion , while there are some reasons to believe that people now depend on each other more , my own view is that we are more independent than ever .
some people who have been in prison become good citizens later , and it is often argued that these are the best people to talk to teenagers about the dangers of committing a crime .
to what extent do you agree or disagree ?
it is true that ex prisoners can become normal , productive members of society .
i completely agree with the idea that allowing such people to speak to teenagers about their experiences is the best way to discourage them from breaking the law .
in my opinion , teenagers are more likely to accept advice from someone who can speak from experience .
reformed offenders can tell young people about how they became involved in crime , the dangers of a criminal lifestyle , and what life in prison is really like .
they can also dispel any ideas that teenagers may have about criminals leading glamorous lives .
while adolescents are often indifferent to the guidance given by older people .
i imagine that most of them would be extremely keen to hear the stories of an ex offender .
the vivid and perhaps shocking nature of these stories is likely to have a powerful impact .
the alternatives to using reformed criminals to educate teenagers about crime would be much less effective .
one option would be for police officers to visit schools and talk to young people .
this could be useful in terms of informing teens about what happens to lawbreakers when they are caught , but young people are often reluctant to take advice from figures of authority .
a second option would be for school teachers to speak to their students about crime , but i doubt that students would see teachers as credible sources of information about this topic .
finally , educational films might be informative , but there would be no opportunity for young people to interact and ask questions .
in conclusion , i fully support the view that people who have turned their lives around after serving a prison sentence could help to deter teenagers from committing crimes .
universities should accept equal numbers of male and female students in every subject .
to what extent do you agree or disagree ?
in my opinion , men and women should have the same educational opportunities .
however , i do not agree with the idea of accepting equal proportions of each gender in every university subject .
having the same number of men and women on all degree courses is simply unrealistic .
student numbers on any course depend on the applications that the institution receives .
if a university decided to fill courses with equal numbers of males and females , it would need enough applicants of each gender .
in reality , many courses are more popular with one gender than the other , and it would not be practical to aim for equal proportions .
for example , nursing courses tend to attract more female applicants , and it would be difficult to fill these courses if fifty per cent of the places needed to go to males .
apart from the practical concerns expressed above , i also believe that it would be unfair to base admission to university courses on gender .
universities should continue to select the best candidates for each course according to their qualifications .
in this way , both men and women have the same opportunities , and applicants know that they will be successful if they work hard to achieve good grades at school .
if a female student is the best candidate for a place on a course , it is surely wrong to reject her in favour of a male student with lower grades or fewer qualifications .
in conclusion , the selection of university students should be based on merit , and it would be both impractical and unfair to change to a selection procedure based on gender .
when choosing a job , the salary is the most important consideration .
to what extent do you agree or disagree ?
many people choose their jobs based on the size of the salary offered .
personally , i disagree with the idea that money is the key consideration when deciding on a career , because i believe that other factors are equally important .
on the one hand , i agree that money is necessary in order for people to meet their basic needs .
for example , we all need money to pay for housing , food , bills , health care , and education .
most people consider it a priority to at least earn a salary that allows them to cover these needs and have a reasonable quality of life .
if people choose their jobs based on enjoyment or other non financial factors , they might find it difficult to support themselves .
for instance , artists and musicians are known for choosing a career path that they love .
but that does not always provide them with enough money to live comfortably and raise a family .
nevertheless , i believe that other considerations are just as important as what we earn in our jobs .
firstly , personal relationships and the atmosphere in a workplace are extremely important when choosing a job .
having a good manager or friendly colleagues , for example , can make a huge difference to workers levels of happiness and general quality of life .
secondly , many peoples feelings of job satisfaction come from their professional achievements , the skills they learn , and the position they reach , rather than the money they earn .
finally , some people choose a career because they want to help others and contribute something positive to society .
in conclusion , while salaries certainly affect peoples choice of profession , i do not believe that money outweighs all other motivators .
some people believe that studying at university or college is the best route to a successful career , while others believe that it is better to get a job straight after school .
discuss both views and give your opinion .
when they finish school , teenagers face the dilemma of whether to get a job or continue their education .
while there are some benefits to getting a job straight after school , i would argue that it is better to go to college or university .
the option to start work straight after school is attractive for several reasons .
many young people want to start earning money as soon as possible .
in this way , they can become independent , and they will be able to afford their own house or start a family .
in terms of their career , young people who decide to find work , rather than continue their studies , may progress more quickly .
they will have the chance to gain real experience and learn practical skills related to their chosen profession .
this may lead to promotions and a successful career .
on the other hand , i believe that it is more beneficial for students to continue their studies .
firstly , academic qualifications are required in many professions .
for example , it is impossible to become a doctor , teacher or lawyer without having the relevant degree .
as a result , university graduates have access to more and better job opportunities , and they tend to earn higher salaries than those with fewer qualifications .
secondly , the job market is becoming increasingly competitive , and sometimes there are hundreds of applicants for one position in a company .
young people who do not have qualifications from a university or college will not be able to compete .
for the reasons mentioned above , it seems to me that students are more likely to be successful in their careers if they continue their studies beyond school level .
n recent years , there has been growing interest in the relationship between equality and personal achievement .
some people believe that individuals can achieve more in egalitarian societies .
others believe that high levels of personal achievement are possible only if individuals are free to succeed or fail according to their individual merits .
what is your view of the relationship between equality and personal success ?
in my opinion , an egalitarian society is one in which everyone has the same rights and the same opportunities .
i completely agree that people can achieve more in this kind of society .
education is an important factor with regard to personal success in life .
i believe that all children should have access to free schooling , and higher education should be either free or affordable for all those who chose to pursue a university degree .
in a society without free schooling or affordable higher education , only children and young adults from wealthier families would have access to the best learning opportunities , and they would therefore be better prepared for the job market .
this kind of inequality would ensure the success of some but harm the prospects of others .
i would argue that equal rights and opportunities are not in conflict with peoples freedom to succeed or fail .
in other words , equality does not mean that people lose their motivation to succeed , or that they are not allowed to fail .
on the contrary , i believe that most people would feel more motivated to work hard and reach their potential if they thought that they lived in a fair society .
those who did not make the same effort would know that they had wasted their opportunity .
inequality , on the other hand , would be more likely to demotivate people because they would know that the odds of success were stacked in favour of those from privileged backgrounds .
in conclusion , it seems to me that there is a positive relationship between equality and personal success .
the older generations tend to have very traditional ideas about how people should live , think and behave .
however , some people believe that these ideas are not helpful in preparing younger generations for modern life .
to what extent do you agree or disagree with this view ?
it is true that many older people believe in traditional values that often seem incompatible with the needs of younger people .
while i agree that some traditional ideas are outdated , i believe that others are still useful and should not be forgotten .
on the one hand , many of the ideas that elderly people have about life are becoming less relevant for younger people .
in the past , for example , people were advised to learn a profession and find a secure job for life , but todays workers expect much more variety and diversity from their careers .
at the same time , the rules around relationships are being eroded as young adults make their own choices about who and when to marry .
but perhaps the greatest disparity between the generations can be seen in their attitudes towards gender roles .
the traditional roles of men and women , as breadwinners and housewives , are no longer accepted as necessary or appropriate by most younger people .
on the other hand , some traditional views and values are certainly applicable to the modern world .
for example , older generations attach great importance to working hard , doing ones best , and taking pride in ones work , and these behaviours can surely benefit young people as they enter todays competitive job market .
other characteristics that are perhaps seen as traditional are politeness and good manners .
in our globalised world , young adults can expect to come into contact with people from a huge variety of backgrounds , and it is more important than ever to treat others with respect .
finally , i believe that young people would lead happier lives if they had a more old fashioned sense of community and neighbourliness .
in conclusion , although the views of older people may sometimes seem unhelpful in todays world , we should not dismiss all traditional ideas as irrelevant .
chronobiology might sound a little futuristic like something from a science fiction novel , perhaps but its actually a field of study that concerns one of the oldest processes life on this planet has ever known .
short term rhythms of time and their effect on flora and fauna .
this can take many forms .
marine life , for example , is influenced by tidal patterns .
animals tend to be active or inactive depending on the position of the sun or moon .
numerous creatures , humans included , are largely diurnal that is , they like to come out during the hours of sunlight .
nocturnal animals , such as bats and possums , prefer to forage by night .
a third group are known as crepuscular .
they thrive in the low light of dawn and dusk and remain inactive at other hours .
when it comes to humans , chronobiologists are interested in what is known as the circadian rhythm .
this is the complete cycle our bodies are naturally geared to undergo within the passage of a twenty four hour day .
aside from sleeping at night and waking during the day , each cycle involves many other factors such as changes in blood pressure and body temperature .
not everyone has an identical circadian rhythm .
night people , for example , often describe how they find it very hard to operate during the morning , but become alert and focused by evening .
this is a benign variation within circadian rhythms known as a chronotype .
scientists have limited abilities to create durable modifications of chronobiological demands .
recent therapeutic developments for humans such as artificial light machines and melatonin administration can reset our circadian rhythms , for example , but our bodies can tell the difference and health suffers when we breach these natural rhythms for extended periods of time .
plants appear no more malleable in this respect .
studies demonstrate that vegetables grown in season and ripened on the tree are far higher in essential nutrients than those grown in greenhouses and ripened by laser .
knowledge of chronobiological patterns can have many pragmatic implications for our day to day lives .
while contemporary living can sometimes appear to subjugate biology after all , who needs circadian rhythms when we have caffeine pills , energy drinks , shift work and cities that never sleep ?
keeping in synch with our body clock is important .
for example , the average urban resident rouses at the eye blearing time of 6.04 a.m , which researchers believe to be far too early .
one study found that even rising at 7.00 a.m has deleterious effects on health unless exercise is performed for 30 minutes afterward .
the optimum moment has been whittled down to 7.22 a.m .
muscle aches , headaches and moodiness were reported to be lowest by participants in the study who awoke then .
once youre up and ready to go , what then ?
if youre trying to shed some extra pounds , dieticians are adamant .
never skip breakfast .
this disorients your circadian rhythm and puts your body in starvation mode .
the recommended course of action is to follow an intense workout with a carbohydrate rich breakfast .
the other way round and weight loss results are not as pronounced .
morning is also great for breaking out the vitamins .
supplement absorption by the body is not temporal dependent , but naturopath pam stone notes that the extra boost at breakfast helps us get energised for the day ahead .
for improved absorption , stone suggests pairing supplements with a food in which they are soluble and steering clear of caffeinated beverages .
finally , stone warns to take care with storage .
high potency is best for absorption , and warmth and humidity are known to deplete the potency of a supplement .
after dinner espressos are becoming more of a tradition we have the italians to thank for that but to prepare for a good nights sleep we are better off putting the brakes on caffeine consumption as early as 3 p.m .
with a seven hour half life , a cup of coffee containing 90 mg of caffeine taken at this hour could still leave 45 mg of caffeine in your nervous system at ten oclock that evening .
it is essential that , by the time you are ready to sleep , your body is rid of all traces .
evenings are important for winding down before sleep .
however , dietician geraldine georgeou warns that an after five carbohydrate fast is more cultural myth than chronobiological demand .
this will deprive your body of vital energy needs .
overloading your gut could lead to indigestion , though .
our digestive tracts do not shut down for the night entirely , but their work slows to a crawl as our bodies prepare for sleep .
consuming a modest snack should be entirely sufficient .
the shepherds of the north caucasus region of europe were only trying to transport milk the best way they knew how in leather pouches strapped to the side of donkeys when they made a significant discovery .
a fermentation process would sometimes inadvertently occur en route , and when the pouches were opened up on arrival they would no longer contain milk but rather a pungent , effervescent , low alcoholic substance instead .
this unexpected development was a blessing in disguise .
the new drink which acquired the name kefir turned out to be a health tonic , a naturally preserved dairy product and a tasty addition to our culinary repertoire .
although their exact origin remains a mystery , we do know that yeast based kefir grains have always been at the root of the kefir phenomenon .
these grains are capable of a remarkable feat .
in contradistinction to most other items you might find in a grocery store , they actually expand and propagate with use .
this is because the grains , which are granular to the touch and bear a slight resemblance to cauliflower rosettes , house active cultures that feed on lactose when added to milk .
consequently , a bigger problem for most kefir drinkers is not where to source new kefir grains , but what to do with the ones they already have !
the great thing about kefir is that it does not require a manufacturing line in order to be produced .
grains can be simply thrown in with a batch of milk for ripening to begin .
the mixture then requires a cool , dark place to live and grow , with periodic unsettling to prevent clumping caucasus inhabitants began storing the concoction in animal skin satchels on the back of doors every time someone entered the room the mixture would get lightly shaken .
after about 24 hours the yeast cultures in the grains have multiplied and devoured most of the milk sugars , and the final product is then ready for human consumption .
nothing compares to a persons first encounter with kefir .
the smooth , uniform consistency rolls over the tongue in a manner akin to liquefied yogurt .
the sharp , tart pungency of unsweetened yogurt is there too , but there is also a slight hint of effervescence , something most users will have previously associated only with mineral waters , soda or beer .
kefir also comes with a subtle aroma of yeast , and depending on the type of milk and ripening conditions , ethanol content can reach up to two or three percent about on par with a decent lager although you can expect around 0.8 to one per cent for a typical day old preparation .
this can bring out a tiny edge of alcohol in the kefirs flavour .
although it has prevailed largely as a fermented milk drink , over the years kefir has acquired a number of other uses .
many bakers use it instead of starter yeast in the preparation of sourdough , and the tangy flavour also makes kefir an ideal buttermilk substitute in pancakes .
kefir also accompanies sour cream as one of the main ingredients in cold beetroot soup and can be used in lieu of regular cows milk on granola or cereal .
as a way to keep their digestive systems fine tuned , athletes sometimes combine kefir with yoghurt in protein shakes .
associated for centuries with pictures of slavic babushkas clutching a shawl in one hand and a cup of kefir in the other , the unassuming beverage has become a minor celebrity of the nascent health food movement in the contemporary west .
every day , more studies pour out supporting the benefits of a diet high in probiotics .
this trend toward consuming probiotics has engulfed the leisure classes in these countries to the point that it is poised to become , according to some commentators , the next multivitamin .
these days the word kefir is consequently more likely to bring to mind glamorous , yoga mat toting women from los angeles than austere visions of blustery eastern europe .
kefirs rise in popularity has encouraged producers to take short cuts or alter the production process .
some home users have omitted the ripening and culturation process while commercial dealers often add thickeners , stabilisers and sweeteners .
but the beauty of kefir is that , at its healthiest and tastiest , it is a remarkably affordable , uncluttered process , as any accidental invention is bound to be .
all that is necessary are some grains , milk and a little bit of patience .
a return to the unadulterated kefir making of old is in everyones interest .
a why not eat insects ?
so asked british entomologist vincent m. holt in the title of his 1885 treatise on the benefits of what he named entomophagy the consumption of insects and similar creatures as a food source .
the prospect of eating dishes such as wireworm sauce and slug soup failed to garner favour amongst those in the stuffy , proper , victorian social milieu of his time , however , and holts visionary ideas were considered at best eccentric , at worst an offense to every refined palate .
anticipating such a reaction , holt acknowledged the difficulty in unseating deep rooted prejudices against insect cuisine , but quietly asserted his confidence that we shall some day quite gladly cook and eat them .
it has taken nearly 150 years but an eclectic western driven movement has finally mounted around the entomophagic cause .
love stories are often associated at least in the popular imagination with fairy tales , adolescent day dreams , disney movies and other frivolous pastimes .
for psychologists developing taxonomies of affection and attachment , however , this is an area of rigorous academic pursuit .
beginning in the early 1970s with the groundbreaking contributions of john alan lee , researchers have developed classifications that they believe better characterise our romantic predispositions .
this involves examining not a single , universal , emotional expression love , but rather a series of divergent behaviours and narratives that each has an individualised purpose , desired outcome and state of mind .
lees gritty methodology painstakingly involved participants matching 170 typical romantic encounters with nearly 1500 possible reactions .
open your eyes in sea water and it is difficult to see much more than a murky , bleary green colour .
sounds , too , are garbled and difficult to comprehend .
without specialised equipment humans would be lost in these deep sea habitats , so how do fish make it seem so easy ?
much of this is due to a biological phenomenon known as electroreception the ability to perceive and act upon electrical stimuli as part of the overall senses .
this ability is only found in aquatic or amphibious species because water is an efficient conductor of electricity .
electroreception comes in two variants .
while all animals including humans generate electric signals , because they are emitted by the nervous system , some animals have the ability known as passive electroreception to receive and decode electric signals generated by other animals in order to sense their location .
other creatures can go further still , however .
animals with active electroreception possess bodily organs that generate special electric signals on cue .
these can be used for mating signals and territorial displays as well as locating objects in the water .
active electroreceptors can differentiate between the various resistances that their electrical currents encounter .
this can help them identify whether another creature is prey , predator or something that is best left alone .
active electroreception has a range of about one body length usually just enough to give its host time to get out of the way or go in for the kill .
time travel took a small step away from science fiction and toward science recently when physicists discovered that sub atomic particles known as neutrinos progeny of the suns radioactive debris can exceed the speed of light .
the unassuming particle it is electrically neutral , small but with a non zero mass and able to penetrate the human form undetected is on its way to becoming a rock star of the scientific world .
researchers from the european organisation for nuclear research cern in geneva sent the neutrinos hurtling through an underground corridor toward their colleagues at the oscillation project with emulsion tracing apparatus opera team 730 kilometres away in gran sasso , italy .
the neutrinos arrived promptly so promptly , in fact , that they triggered what scientists are calling the unthinkable that everything they have learnt , known or taught stemming from the last one hundred years of the physics discipline may need to be reconsidered .
the issue at stake is a tiny segment of time precisely sixty nanoseconds which is sixty billionths of a second .
this is how much faster than the speed of light the neutrinos managed to go in their underground travels and at a consistent rate 15,000 neutrinos were sent over three years .
even allowing for a margin of error of ten billionths of a second , this stands as proof that it is possible to race against light and win .
the duration of the experiment also accounted for and ruled out any possible lunar effects or tidal bulges in the earths crust .
nevertheless , theres plenty of reason to remain sceptical .
according to harvard university science historian peter galison , einsteins relativity theory has been pushed harder than any theory in the history of the physical sciences .
yet each prior challenge has come to no avail , and relativity has so far refused to buckle .
so is time travel just around the corner ?
the prospect has certainly been wrenched much closer to the realm of possibility now that a major physical hurdle the speed of light has been cleared .
if particles can travel faster than light , in theory travelling back in time is possible .
how anyone harnesses that to some kind of helpful end is far beyond the scope of any modern technologies , however , and will be left to future generations to explore .
certainly , any prospective time travellers may have to overcome more physical and logical hurdles than merely overtaking the speed of light .
one such problem , posited by ren barjavel in his 1943 text le voyageur imprudent is the socalled grandfather paradox .
barjavel theorised that , if it were possible to go back in time , a time traveller could potentially kill his own grandfather .
if this were to happen , however , the time traveller himself would not be born , which is already known to be true .
in other words , there is a paradox in circumventing an already known future .
time travel is able to facilitate past actions that mean time travel itself can not occur .
other possible routes have been offered , though .
for igor novikov , astrophysicist behind the 1980s theorem known as the self consistency principle , time travel is possible within certain boundaries .
novikov argued that any event causing a paradox would have zero probability .
it would be possible , however , to affect rather than change historical outcomes if travellers avoided all inconsistencies .
averting the sinking of the titanic , for example , would revoke any future imperative to stop it from sinking it would be impossible .
saving selected passengers from the water and replacing them with realistic corpses would not be impossible , however , as the historical record would not be altered in any way .
a further possibility is that of parallel universes .
popularised by bryce seligman dewitt in the 1960s from the seminal formulation of hugh everett , the many worlds interpretation holds that an alternative pathway for every conceivable occurrence actually exists .
if we were to send someone back in time , we might therefore expect never to see him again any alterations would divert that person down a new historical trajectory .
a final hypothesis , one of unidentified provenance , reroutes itself quite efficiently around the grandfather paradox .
non existence theory suggests exactly that a person would quite simply never exist if they altered their ancestry in ways that obstructed their own birth .
they would still exist in person upon returning to the present , but any chain reactions associated with their actions would not be registered .
their historical identity would be gone .
so , will humans one day step across the same boundary that the neutrinos have ?
world renowned astrophysicist stephen hawking believes that once spaceships can exceed the speed of light , humans could feasibly travel millions of years into the future in order to repopulate earth in the event of a forthcoming apocalypse .
this is because , as the spaceships accelerate into the future , time would slow down around them hawking concedes that bygone eras are off limits this would violate the fundamental rule that cause comes before effect .
hawking is therefore reserved yet optimistic .
time travel was once considered scientific heresy , and i used to avoid talking about it for fear of being labelled a crank .
these days im not so cautious .
for the strength of the pack is the wolf , and the strength of the wolf is the pack .
rudyard kipling , the law for the wolves .
a wolf pack is an extremely well organised family group with a well defined social structure and a clear cut code of conduct .
every wolf has a certain place and function within the pack and every member has to do its fair share of the work .
the supreme leader is a very experienced wolf the alpha who has dominance over the whole pack .
it is the protector and decision maker and directs the others as to where , when and what to hunt .
environmental medicine also called conservation medicine , ecological medicine , or medical geology .
in simple terms , environmental medicine deals with the interaction between human and animal health and the environment .
it concerns the adverse reactions that people have on contact with or exposure to an environmental excitant .
ecological health is its primary concern , especially emerging infectious diseases and pathogens from insects , plants and vertebrate animals .
practitioners of environmental medicine work in teams involving many other specialists .
the relationship between television and sports is not widely thought of as problematic .
for many people , television is a simple medium through which sports can be played , replayed , slowed down , and of course conveniently transmitted live to homes across the planet .
what is often overlooked , however , is how television networks have reshaped the very foundations of an industry that they claim only to document .
major television stations immediately seized the revenue generating prospects of televising sports and this has changed everything , from how they are played to who has a chance to watch them .
before television , for example , live matches could only be viewed in person .
for the majority of fans , who were unable to afford tickets to the top flight matches , or to travel the long distances required to see them , the only option was to attend a local game instead , where the stakes were much lower .
as a result , thriving social networks and sporting communities formed around the efforts of teams in the third and fourth divisions and below .
with the advent of live tv , however , premier matches suddenly became affordable and accessible to hundreds of millions of new viewers .
this shift in viewing patterns vacuumed out the support base of local clubs , many of which ultimately folded .
for those on the more prosperous side of this shift in viewing behaviour , however , the financial rewards are substantial .
the scottish bacteriologist dr alexander fleming 1881 1955 is credited with the discovery of penicillin in london in 1928 .
he had been working at st marys hospital on the bacteriology of septic wounds .
as a medic during world war i , he had witnessed the deaths of many wounded soldiers from infection and he had observed that the use of harsh antiseptics , rather than healing the body , actually harmed the blood corpuscles that destroy bacteria .
in his search for effective antimicrobial agents , fleming was cultivating staphylococcus bacteria in petri dishes containing agar .
before going on holiday in the summer of 1928 , he piled up the agar plates to make room for someone else to use his workbench in his absence and left the windows open .
each year in many countries around the world , clocks are set forward in spring and then back again in autumn in an effort to save daylight hours .
like many modern practices , daylight savings time dst dates back to ancient civilisations .
the romans would adjust their routines to the suns schedule by using different scales in their water clocks for different months of the year .
this practice fell out of favour , however , and the concept was renewed only when , in 1784 , the american inventor benjamin franklin wrote a jocular article for the journal of paris exhorting the citys residents to make more use of daylight hours in order to reduce candle use .
in 1895 , in a more serious effort , new zealand entomologist george vernon hudson proposed a biannual two hour shift closely resembling current forms of dst .
his cause was not taken up , however , until germany first pushed their clocks forward in april 1916 as part of a drive to save fuel in world war i .
over the next several decades , global use of dst was sporadic and inconsistent .
countries such as the uk and usa adopted dst in world wars i and ii , but reverted to standard time after the wars ended .
in the usa , the decision to use dst was determined by states and municipalities between 1945 and 1966 , causing widespread confusion for transport and broadcasting schedules until congress implemented the uniform time act in 1966 .
today , dst is used in some form by over 70 countries worldwide , affecting around one sixth of the worlds population .
there is still no uniform standard , however .
countries such as egypt and russia have adjusted their policies on multiple occasions in recent years , in some instances leading to considerable turmoil .
muslim countries often suspend dst for the month of ramadan .
the european union finally standardised dst in 2000 , while the usas most recent adjustments were introduced with the energy policy act of 2005 .
in general , the benefits of dst are considerable and well documented .
perhaps the most significant factor in terms of popular support is the chance to make better use of daylight in the evening .
with extended daylight hours , office workers coming off a 9 to 5 shift can often take part in outdoor recreational activities for an hour or two .
this has other positive effects , such as reducing domestic electricity consumption as more opportunities become available to use sunlight instead of artificial lighting .
a further benefit is a reduction in the overall rate of automobile accidents , as dst ensures that streets are well lit at peak hours .
many industries are supportive of dst due to the opportunities it provides for increased revenue .
extended daylight hours mean people are more likely to stay out later in the evening and spend more money in bars and restaurants , for example , so tourism and hospitality are two sectors that stand to gain a lot from more daylight .
in queensland , australia , which elected not to implement dst due to complaints from dairy farmers over disruption to milking schedules , the annual drain on the states economy is estimated to be as high as 4 billion .
some research casts doubt on the advantages of dst , however .
although the overall incidence of traffic accidents is lower , for pedestrians the risk of being hit by a car in the evening increases by as much as 186 per cent in the weeks after clocks are set back in autumn , possibly because drivers have not yet adjusted to earlier sunsets .
although this shift does in turn make streets safer in early mornings , the risk to pedestrians is not offset simply because fewer pedestrians use the streets at that time .
a further health concern involves the disruption of our body clock .
setting clocks one hour forward at night can cause many people to lose sleep , resulting in tiredness and all its well documented effects , such as mood swings , reduced productivity and problems with overall physical well being .
in 2008 , a swedish study found that heart attack rates spike in the few days following the switch to dst for summer .
tiredness may also be a factor behind the increase in road accidents in the week after dst begins .
finally , safety issues have arisen in parts of latin america relating to a suspected relationship between dst and higher incidences of street crime .
in 2008 , guatemala chose not to use dst because it forced office workers to leave their homes while it was still dark outside in the morning .
this natural cover for criminals was thought to increase incidents of crime at this hour .
although willpower does not shape our decisions , it determines whether and how long we can follow through on them .
it almost single handedly determines life outcomes .
interestingly , research suggests the general population is indeed aware of how essential willpower is to their wellbeing .
survey participants routinely identify a lack of willpower as the major impediment to making beneficial life changes .
there are , however , misunderstandings surrounding the nature of willpower and how we can acquire more of it .
there is a widespread misperception , for example , that increased leisure time would lead to subsequent increases in willpower .
william shakespeare is the western worlds most famous playwright but did he really write the plays and poems that are attributed to him ?
there has been controversy over the authorship of the works of shakespeare since the nineteenth century .
the initial impetus for this debate came from the fact that nineteenth century critics , poets and readers were puzzled and displeased when they were presented with the few remaining scraps of evidence about the life of shakspere , as his name was most commonly spelled .
the author they admired and loved must have been scholarly and intellectual , linguistically gifted , knowledgeable about the lifestyle of those who lived in royal courts , and he appeared to have travelled in europe .
these critics felt that the son of a stratford glove maker , whose only definite recorded dealings concerned buying property , some minor legal action over a debt , tax records , and the usual entries for birth , marriage and death , could not possibly have written poetry based on classical models .
the control of fire was the first and perhaps greatest of humanitys steps towards a life enhancing technology .
to early man , fire was a divine gift randomly delivered in the form of lightning , forest fire or burning lava .
unable to make flame for themselves , the earliest peoples probably stored fire by keeping slow burning logs alight or by carrying charcoal in pots .
how and where man learnt how to produce flame at will is unknown .
it was probably a secondary invention , accidentally made during tool making operations with wood or stone .
studies of primitive societies suggest that the earliest method of making fire was through friction .
european peasants would insert a wooden drill in a round hole and rotate it briskly between their palms .
this process could be speeded up by wrapping a cord around the drill and pulling on each end .
the ancient greeks used lenses or concave mirrors to concentrate the suns rays and burning glasses were also used by mexican aztecs and the chinese .
percussion methods of fire lighting date back to paleolithic times , when some stone age tool makers discovered that chipping flints produced sparks .
the technique became more efficient after the discovery of iron , about 5000 years ago .
in arctic north america , the eskimos produced a slow burning spark by striking quartz against iron pyrites , a compound that contains sulphur .
the chinese lit their fires by striking porcelain with bamboo .
in europe , the combination of steel , flint and tinder remained the main method of fire lighting until the mid 19th century .
fire lighting was revolutionised by the discovery of phosphorus , isolated in 1669 by a german alchemist trying to transmute silver into gold .
impressed by the elements combustibility , several 17th century chemists used it to manufacture fire lighting devices , but the results were dangerously inflammable .
with phosphorus costing the equivalent of several hundred pounds per ounce , the first matches were expensive .
the quest for a practical match really began after 1781 when a group of french chemists came up with the phosphoric candle or ethereal match , a sealed glass tube containing a twist of paper tipped with phosphorus .
when the tube was broken , air rushed in , causing the phosphorus to self combust .
an even more hazardous device , popular in america , was the instantaneous light box a bottle filled with sulphuric acid into which splints treated with chemicals were dipped .
the first matches resembling those used today were made in 1827 by john walker , an english pharmacist who borrowed the formula from a military rocket maker called congreve .
costing a shilling a box , congreves were splints coated with sulphur and tipped with potassium chlorate .
to light them , the user drew them quickly through folded glass paper .
walker never patented his invention , and three years later it was copied by a samuel jones , who marketed his product as lucifers .
about the same time , a french chemistry student called charles sauria produced the first strike anywhere match by substituting white phosphorus for the potassium chlorate in the walker formula .
however , since white phosphorus is a deadly poison , from 1845 match makers exposed to its fumes succumbed to necrosis , a disease that eats away jaw bones .
it wasnt until 1906 that the substance was eventually banned .
that was 62 years after a swedish chemist called pasch had discovered non toxic red or amorphous phosphorus , a development exploited commercially by paschs compatriot j e lundstrom in 1885 .
lundstroms safety matches were safe because the red phosphorus was non toxic .
it was painted on to the striking surface instead of the match tip , which contained potassium chlorate with a relatively high ignition temperature of 182 degrees centigrade .
america lagged behind europe in match technology and safety standards .
it wasnt until 1900 that the diamond match company bought a french patent for safety matches but the formula did not work properly in the different climatic conditions prevailing in america and it was another 11 years before scientists finally adapted the french patent for the us .
the americans , however , can claim several firsts in match technology and marketing .
in 1892 the diamond match company pioneered book matches .
the innovation didnt catch on until after 1896 , when a brewery had the novel idea of advertising its product in match books .
today book matches are the most widely used type in the us , with 90 percent handed out free by hotels , restaurants and others .
other american innovations include an anti afterglow solution to prevent the match from smouldering after it has been blown out .
and the waterproof match , which lights after eight hours in water .
one of london zoos recent advertisements caused me some irritation , so patently did it distort reality .
headlined without zoos you might as well tell these animals to get stuffed , it was bordered with illustrations of several endangered species and went on to extol the myth that without zoos like london zoo these animals will almost certainly disappear forever .
with the zoo worlds rather mediocre record on conservation , one might be forgiven for being slightly sceptical about such an advertisement .
zoos were originally created as places of entertainment , and their suggested involvement with conservation didnt seriously arise until about 30 years ago , when the zoological society of london held the first formal international meeting on the subject .
eight years later , a series of world conferences took place , entitled the breeding of endangered species , and from this point onwards conservation became the zoo communitys buzzword .
the prime minister has promised to help the drought stricken farmers in the northern part of the country who havent seen rain for nearly two years .
and in sydney a group of school children are successfully rescued from a plane which landed in the sea shortly after take off .
transport workers are on strike in melbourne over a pay claim and the strike looks set to spread to other states .
and on a fashionable note , theres to be a new look for the staff of qantas , australias national airline .
the prime minister has pledged today that he will make two hundred and fifty million dollars available to help the drought stricken farmers who have not seen ram for years , get through the next five years .
architecture is the art and science of designing buildings and structures .
a building reflects the scientific and technological achievements of the age as well as the ideas and aspirations of the designer and client .
the appearance of individual buildings , however , is often controversial .
the use of an architectural style can not be said to start or finish on a specific date .
neither is it possible to say exactly what characterises a particular movement .
but the origins of what is now generally known as modern architecture can be traced back to the social and technological changes of the 18th and 19th centuries .
instead of using timber , stone and traditional building techniques , architects began to explore ways of creating buildings by using the latest technology and materials such as steel , glass and concrete strengthened steel bars , known as reinforced concrete .
technological advances also helped bring about the decline of rural industries and an increase in urban populations as people moved to the towns to work in the new factories .
such rapid and uncontrolled growth helped to turn parts of cities into slums .
by the 1920s architects throughout europe were reacting against the conditions created by industrialisation .
a new style of architecture emerged to reflect more idealistic notions for the future .
it was made possible by new materials and construction techniques and was known as modernism .
by the 1930s many buildings emerging from this movement were designed in the international style .
this was largely characterised by the bold use of new materials and simple , geometric forms , often with white walls supported by stilt like pillars .
these were stripped of unnecessary decoration that would detract from their primary purpose to be used or lived in .
walter gropius , charles jeanneret better known as le corbusier and ludwig mies van der rohe were among the most influential of the many architects who contributed to the development of modernism in the first half of the century .
but the economic depression of the 1930s and the second world war 1939 45 prevented their ideas from being widely realised until the economic conditions improved and war torn cities had to be rebuilt .
by the 1950s , the international style had developed into a universal approach to building , which standardised the appearance of new buildings in cities across the world .
unfortunately , this modernist interest in geometric simplicity and function became exploited for profit .
the rediscovery of quick and easy to handle reinforced concrete and an improved ability to prefabricate building sections meant that builders could meet the budgets of commissioning authorities and handle a renewed demand for development quickly and cheaply .
but this led to many badly designed buildings , which discredited the original aims of modernism .
influenced by le corbusiers ideas on town planning , every large british city built multi storey housing estates in the 1960s .
mass produced , low cost high rises seemed to offer a solution to the problem of housing a growing inner city population .
but far from meeting human needs , the new estates often proved to be windswept deserts lacking essential social facilities and services .
many of these buildings were poorly designed and constructed and have since been demolished .
by the 1970s , a new respect for the place of buildings within the existing townscape arose .
preserving historic buildings or keeping only their facades or fronts grew common .
architects also began to make more use of building styles and materials that were traditional to the area .
the architectural style usually referred to as high tech was also emerging .
it celebrated scientific and engineering achievements by openly parading the sophisticated techniques used in construction .
such buildings are commonly made of metal and glass .
examples are stansted airport and the lloyds building in london .
disillusionment at the failure of many of the poor imitations of modernist architecture led to interest in various styles and ideas from the past and present .
by the 1980s the coexistence of different styles of architecture in the same building became known as post modern .
other architects looked back to the classical tradition .
the trend in architecture now favours smaller scale building design that reflects a growing public awareness of environmental issues such as energy efficiency .
like the modernists , people today recognise that a well designed environment improves the quality of life but is not necessarily achieved by adopting one well defined style of architecture .
twentieth century architecture will mainly be remembered for its tall buildings .
they have been made possible by the development of light steel frames and safe passenger lifts .
they originated in the us over a century ago to help meet the demand for more economical use of land .
as construction techniques improved , the skyscraper became a reality .
good morning and welcome to the university of westlands .
my name is marcia mayhew and im the co ordinator of the bachelor of social science degree .
this morning id like to tell you about the structure of the university and about some of the requirements of the degree that youre about to enter .
the bachelor of social science is in one faculty within the university , that is the faculty where i work , known as arts and social sciences .
here on this campus we also have the faculties of architecture , law and science and technology among others .
why do humans , virtually alone among all animal species , display a distinct left or right handedness ?
not even our closest relatives among the apes possess such decided lateral asymmetry , as psychologists call it .
yet about 90 per cent of every human population that has ever lived appears to have been right handed .
professor bryan turner at deakin university has studied the research literature on left handedness and found that handedness goes with sidedness .
so nine out of ten people are right handed and eight are right footed .
he noted that this distinctive asymmetry in the human population is itself systematic .
to eke out a full time living from their honeybees , about half the nations 2,000 commercial beekeepers pull up stakes each spring , migrating north to find more flowers for their bees .
besides turning floral nectar into honey , these hardworking insects also pollinate crops for farmers for a fee .
as autumn approaches , the beekeepers pack up their hives and go south , scrambling for pollination contracts in hot spots like californias fertile central valley .
of the 2,000 commercial beekeepers in the united states about half migrate .
this pays off in two ways .
moving north in the summer and south in the winter lets bees work a longer blooming season , making more honey and money for their keepers .
second , beekeepers can carry their hives to farmers who need bees to pollinate their crops .
every spring a migratory beekeeper in california may move up to 160 million bees to flowering fields in minnesota and every winter his family may haul the hives back to california , where farmers will rent the bees to pollinate almond and cherry trees .
migratory beekeeping is nothing new .
the ancient egyptians moved clay hives , probably on rafts , down the nile to follow the bloom and nectar flow as it moved toward cairo .
in the 1880s north american beekeepers experimented with the same idea , moving bees on barges along the mississippi and on waterways in florida , but their lighter , wooden hives kept falling into the water .
other keepers tried the railroad and horse drawn wagons , but that didnt prove practical .
not until the 1920s when cars and trucks became affordable and roads improved , did migratory beekeeping begin to catch on .
for the californian beekeeper , the pollination season begins in february .
at this time , the beehives are in particular demand by farmers who have almond groves .
they need two hives an acre .
for the three week long bloom , beekeepers can hire out their hives for 32 each .
its a bonanza for the bees too .
most people consider almond honey too bitter to eat so the bees get to keep it for themselves .
by early march it is time to move the bees .
it can take up to seven nights to pack the 4,000 or so hives that a beekeeper may own .
these are not moved in the middle of the day because too many of the bees would end up homeless .
but at night , the hives are stacked onto wooden pallets , back to back in sets of four , and lifted onto a truck .
it is not necessary to wear gloves or a beekeepers veil because the hives are not being opened and the bees should remain relatively quiet .
just in case some are still lively , bees can be pacified with a few puffs of smoke blown into each hives narrow entrance .
in their new location , the beekeeper will pay the farmer to allow his bees to feed in such places as orange groves .
the honey produced here is fragrant and sweet and can be sold by the beekeepers .
to encourage the bees to produce as much honey as possible during this period , the beekeepers open the hives and stack extra boxes called supers on top .
these temporary hive extensions contain frames of empty comb for the bees to fill with honey .
in the brood chamber below , the bees will stash honey to eat later .
to prevent the queen from crawling up to the top and laying eggs , a screen can be inserted between the brood chamber and the supers .
three weeks later the honey can be gathered .
foul smelling chemicals are often used to irritate the bees and drive them down into the hives bottom boxes , leaving the honey filled supers more or less bee free .
these can then be pulled off the hive .
they are heavy with honey and may weigh up to 90 pounds each .
the supers are taken to a warehouse .
in the extracting room , the frames are lilted out and lowered into an uncapper where rotating blades shave away the wax that covers each cell .
the uncapped frames are put in a carousel that sits on the bottom of a large stainless steel drum .
the carousel is filled to capacity with 72 frames .
a switch is flipped and the frames begin to whirl at 300 revolutions per minute .
centrifugal force throws the honey out of the combs .
finally the honey is poured into barrels for shipment .
after this , approximately a quarter of the hives weakened by disease , mites , or an ageing or dead queen , will have to be replaced .
to create new colonies , a healthy double hive , teeming with bees , can be separated into two boxes .
one half will hold the queen and a young , already mated queen can be put in the other half , to make two hives from one .
by the time the flowers bloom , the new queens will be laying eggs , filling each hive with young worker bees .
the beekeepers family will then migrate with them to their summer location .
well , last week we talked about buying camping equipment and today id like to talk to you about buying a bicycle .
a simple enough exercise , you might imagine , but there are lots of things to look out for to make sure you get the best deal for your money .
well , the range of bicycles is enormous there are racing bikes , touring bikes , mountain bikes or just plain ordinary bikes for riding round town .
they vary enormously in two basic ways .
price and quality .
this means that the choice you make will probably be determined by the amount of money you want to pay , your own personal needs , what is actually available or a compromise of all three things .
tourism , holidaymaking and travel are these days more significant social phenomena than most commentators have considered .
on the face of it there could not be a more trivial subject for a book .
and indeed since social scientists have had considerable difficulty explaining weightier topics such as work or politics it might be thought that they would have great difficulties in accounting for more trivial phenomena such as holidaymaking .
however , there are interesting parallels with the study of deviance .
this involves the investigation of bizarre and idiosyncratic social practices which happen to be defined as deviant in some societies but not necessarily in others .
the assumption is that the investigation of deviance can reveal interesting and significant aspects of normal societies .
it could be said that a similar analysis can be applied to tourism .
tourism is a leisure activity which presupposes its opposite namely regulated and organised work .
it is one manifestation of how work and leisure are organised as separate and regulated spheres of social practice in modern societies .
indeed acting as a tourist is one of the defining characteristics of being modern and the popular concept of tourism is that it is organised within particular places and occurs for regularised periods of time .
tourist relationships arise from a movement of people to and their stay in various destinations .
this necessarily involves some movement that is the journey and a period of stay in a new place or places .
the journey and the stay are by definition outside the normal places of residence and work and are of a short term and temporary nature and there is a clear intention to return home within a relatively short period of time .
places are chosen to be visited and be gazed upon because there is an anticipation especially through daydreaming and fantasy of intense pleasures , either on a different scale or involving different senses from those customarily encountered .
such anticipation is constructed and sustained through a variety of non tourist practices such as films tv literature , magazines records and videos which construct and reinforce this daydreaming .
tourists tend to visit features of landscape and townscape which separate them off from everyday experience .
such aspects are viewed because they are taken to be in some sense out of the ordinary .
the viewing of these tourist sights often involves different forms of social patterning with a much greater sensitivity to visual elements of landscape or townscape than is normally found in everyday life .
people linger over these sights in a way that they would not normally do in their home environment and the vision is objectified or captured through photographs postcards films and so on which enable the memory to be endlessly reproduced and recaptured .
one of the earliest dissertations on the subject of tourism is boorstins analysis of the pseudo event 1964 where he argues that contemporary americans can not experience reality directly but thrive on pseudo events .
isolated from the host environment and the local people the mass tourist travels in guided groups and finds pleasure in inauthentic contrived attractions gullibly enjoying the pseudo events and disregarding the real world outside .
over time the images generated of different tourist sights come to constitute a closed self perpetuating system of illusions which provide the tourist with the basis for selecting and evaluating potential places to visit .
such visits are made says boorstin , within the environmental bubble of the familiar american style hotel which insulates the tourist from the strangeness of the host environment .
to service the burgeoning tourist industry , an array of professionals has developed who attempt to reproduce ever new objects for the tourist to look at .
these objects or places are located in a complex and changing hierarchy .
this depends upon the interplay between , on the one hand , competition between interests involved in the provision of such objects and , on the other hand changing class , gender , and generational distinctions of taste within the potential population of visitors .
it has been said that to be a tourist is one of the characteristics of the modern experience .
not to go away is like not possessing a car or a nice house .
travel is a marker of status in modern societies and is also thought to be necessary for good health .
the role of the professional , therefore , is to cater for the needs and tastes of the tourists in accordance with their class and overall expectations .
good morning , good morning everyone and welcome to our regular lecture on health issues .
this series of lectures is organised by the students union and is part of the unions attempt to help you , the students of this university , to stay healthy while coping with study and social life at the same time .
so its a great pleasure for me to welcome back ms diane greenbaum who is a professional dietician who has been kind enough to give up her time , in what i know is a very hectic schedule , to come along and talk to us today .
thank you very much , john .
may i say its a pleasure to be back .
now , stresses at university , being away from home and having to look after yourselves , learning your way around the campus all contribute to making it quite hard sometimes to ensure that your diet is adequate .
so today im going to talk about ways of making sure that you eat well while at the same time staving within your budget .
if you have a well balanced diet , then you should be getting all the vitamins that you need for normal daily living .
however sometimes we think were eating the right foods but the vitamins are escaping , perhaps as a result of cooking and anyway were not getting the full benefit of them .
now , if you lack vitamins in any way the solution isnt to rush off and take vitamin pills though they can sometimes help .
no its far better to look at your diet and how you prepare your food .
so what are vitamins ?
well , the dictionary tells us they are food factors essential in small quantities to maintain life .
now , there are fat soluble vitamins which can be stored for quite some time by the body and there are water soluble vitamins which are removed more rapidly from the body and so a regular daily in take of these ones is needed .
ok , so how can you ensure that your diet contains enough of the vitamins you need ?
well , first of all , you may have to establish some new eating habits !
no more chips at the uni canteen , im afraid !
now firstly , you must eat a variety of foods .
then you need to ensure that you eat at least four servings of fruit and vegetables daily .
now youll need to shop two or three times a week to make sure that theyre fresh , and store your vegetables in the fridge or in a cool dark place .
now lets just refresh our memories by looking at the healthy diet pyramid .
ok , can you all see that ?
well , now , as you see weve got three levels to our pyramid .
at the top in the smallest area are the things which we should really be trying to avoid as much as possible .
things like sugar , salt , butter all that sort of thing .
next , on the middle of our pyramid we find the things that we can eat in moderation .
not too much though !
and thats where we find milk , lean meat , fish , nuts , eggs .
and then at the bottom of the pyramid are the things that you can eat lots of !
because theyre the things that are really good for you and here we have bread , vegetables and fruit .
so dont lose sight of your healthy diet pyramid when you do your shopping .
welcome to this talk on space management .
and today im going to look particularly at space management in the supermarket .
now since the time supermarkets began , marketing consultants , like us , have been gathering information about customers shopping habits .
to date , various research methods have been used to help promote the sales of supermarket products .
for example , there is the direct questionnaire which provides information from customers about their views on displays and products and then helps retailers make decisions about what to put where .
glass , in one form or another , has long been in noble service to humans .
as one of the most widely used of manufactured materials , and certainly the most versatile , it can be as imposing as a telescope mirror the width of a tennis court or as small and simple as a marble rolling across dirt .
the uses of this adaptable material have been broadened dramatically by new technologies glass fibre optics more than eight million miles carrying telephone and television signals across nations , glass ceramics serving as the nose cones of missiles and as crowns for teeth .
tiny glass beads taking radiation doses inside the body to specific organs , even a new type of glass fashioned of nuclear waste in order to dispose of that unwanted material .
and the pulses would travel over glass fibres , not copper wire .
these machines could function hundreds of times faster than todays electronic computers and hold vastly more information .
today fibre optics are used to obtain a clearer image of smaller and smaller objects than ever before even bacterial viruses .
a new generation of optical instruments is emerging that can provide detailed imaging of the inner workings of cells .
it is the surge in fibre optic use and in liquid crystal displays that has set the us glass industry a 16 billion dollar business employing some 150,000 workers to building new plants to meet demand .
but it is not only in technology and commerce that glass has widened its horizons .
the use of glass as art , a tradition spins back at least to roman times , is also booming .
nearly everywhere , it seems , men and women are blowing glass and creating works of art .
i didnt sell a piece of glass until 1975 , dale chihuly said , smiling , for in the 18 years since the end of the dry spell , he has become one of the most financially successful artists of the 20th century .
he now has a new commission a glass sculpture for the headquarters building of a pizza company for which his fee is half a million dollars .
but not all the glass technology that touches our lives is ultra modern .
consider the simple light bulb .
at the turn of the century most light bulbs were hand blown , and the cost of one was equivalent to half a days pay for the average worker .
in effect , the invention of the ribbon machine by corning in the 1920s lighted a nation .
the price of a bulb plunged .
small wonder that the machine has been called one of the great mechanical achievements of all time .
yet it is very simple .
a narrow ribbon of molten glass travels over a moving belt of steel in which there are holes .
the glass sags through the holes and into waiting moulds .
puffs of compressed air then shape the glass .
in this way , the envelope of a light bulb is made by a single machine at the rate of 66,000 an hour , as compared with 1,200 a day produced by a team of four glassblowers .
the secret of the versatility of glass lies in its interior structure .
although it is rigid , and thus like a solid , the atoms are arranged in a random disordered fashion , characteristic of a liquid .
in the melting process , the atoms in the raw materials are disturbed from their normal position in the molecular structure .
before they can find their way back to crystalline arrangements the glass cools .
this looseness in molecular structure gives the material what engineers call tremendous formability which allows technicians to tailor glass to whatever they need .
today , scientists continue to experiment with new glass mixtures and building designers test their imaginations with applications of special types of glass .
a london architect , mike davies , sees even more dramatic buildings using molecular chemistry .
glass is the great building material of the future , the dynamic skin , he said .
think of glass that has been treated to react to electric currents going through it , glass that will change from clear to opaque at the push of a button , that gives you instant curtains .
think of how the tall buildings in new york could perform a symphony of colours as the glass in them is made to change colours instantly .
glass as instant curtains is available now , but the cost is exorbitant .
as for the glass changing colours instantly , that may come true .
mike daviess vision may indeed be on the way to fulfilment .
women who apply for jobs in middle or senior management have a higher success rate than men , according to an employment survey .
but of course far fewer of them apply for these positions .
the study , by recruitment consultants nb selection , shows that while one in six men who appear on interview shortlists get jobs , the figure rises to one in four for women .
the study concentrated on applications for management positions in the 45,000 to 110,000 salary range and found that women are more successful than men in both the private and public sectors .
dr elisabeth marx from london based nb selection described the findings as encouraging for women , in that they send a positive message to them to apply for interesting management positions .
thanks for turning up today , thanks for turning up today to this short talk im going to give on student banking .
many of you are unfamiliar with the way banks work in this country and todays talk should just give you a few starting points .
i will of course answer any questions at the end .
well , as you probably know , youll need to open a bank account while youre here its the safest place to keep your money and its best to open an account with one of the major banks .
you should each have a handout with the names and addresses .
population viability analysis pva is a species specific method of risk assessment frequently used in conservation biology .
it is traditionally defined as the process that determines the probability that a population will go extinct within a given number of years .
part a to make political decisions about the extent and type of forestry in a region it is important to understand the consequences of those decisions .
one tool for assessing the impact of forestry on the ecosystem is population viability analysis pva .
this is a tool for predicting the probability that a species will become extinct in a particular region over a specific period .
it has been successfully used in the united states to provide input into resource exploitation decisions and assist wildlife managers and there is now enormous potential for using population viability to assist wildlife management in australias forests .
a species becomes extinct when the last individual dies .
this observation is a useful starting point for any discussion of extinction as it highlights the role of luck and chance in the extinction process .
to make a prediction about extinction we need to understand the processes that can contribute to it and these fall into four broad categories which are discussed below .
early attempts to predict population viability were based on demographic uncertainty .
whether an individual survives from one year to the next will largely be a matter of chance .
some pairs may produce several young in a single year while others may produce none in that same year .
small populations will fluctuate enormously because of the random nature of birth and death and these chance fluctuations can cause species extinctions even if , on average , the population size should increase .
taking only this uncertainty of ability to reproduce into account , extinction is unlikely if the number of individuals in a population is above about 50 and the population is growing .
small populations can not avoid a certain amount of inbreeding .
this is particularly true if there is a very small number of one sex .
for example , if there are only 20 individuals of a species and only one is a male , all future individuals in the species must be descended from that one male .
for most animal species such individuals are less likely to survive and reproduce .
inbreeding increases the chance of extinction .
variation within a species is the raw material upon which natural selection acts .
without genetic variability a species lacks the capacity to evolve and can not adapt to changes in its environment or to new predators and new diseases .
the loss of genetic diversity associated with reductions in population size will contribute to the likelihood of extinction .
recent research has shown that other factors need to be considered .
australias environment fluctuates enormously from year to year .
these fluctuations add yet another degree of uncertainty to the survival of many species .
catastrophes such as fire , flood , drought or epidemic may reduce population sizes to a small fraction of their average level .
when allowance is made for these two additional elements of uncertainty the population size necessary to be confident of persistence for a few hundred years may increase to several thousand .
part c beside these processes we need to bear in mind the distribution of a population .
a species that occurs in five isolated places each containing 20 individuals will not have the same probability of extinction as a species with a single population of 100 individuals in a single locality .
where logging occurs that is , the cutting down of forests for timber forest dependent creatures in that area will be forced to leave .
ground dwelling herbivores may return within a decade .
however , arboreal marsupials that is animals which live in trees may not recover to pre logging densities for over a century .
as more forests are logged , animal population sizes will be reduced further .
regardless of the theory or model that we choose , a reduction in population size decreases the genetic diversity of a population and increases the probability of extinction because of any or all of the processes listed above .
it is therefore a scientific fact that increasing the area that is loaded in any region will increase the probability that forest dependent animals will become extinct .
good morning and welcome to the universitys open day and to our mini lecture from the sports studies department .
now the purpose of this lecture is twofold .
one we want you to experience a university lecture , to give you a taste of what listening to a university lecture is like , and two we want you to find out something about the sports studies program at this university .
so feel free to ask any questions during the talk and ill do my best to answer them .
right so what does a course in sports studies involve ?
well , you wouldnt be blamed for not knowing the answer to this question because sports studies as a discipline is still comparatively new .
but its a growing area and one which is now firmly established at our university .
the concept of health holds different meanings for different people and groups .
these meanings of health have also changed overtime .
this change is no more evident than in western society today , when notions of health and health promotion are being challenged and expanded in new ways .
for much of recent western history , health has been viewed in the physical sense only .
that is , good health has been connected to the smooth mechanical operation of the body , while ill health has been attributed to a breakdown in this machine .
one of the most eminent of psychologists , clark hull , claimed that the essence of reasoning lies in the putting together of two behaviour segments in some novel way , never actually performed before , so as to reach a goal .
two followers of clark hull , howard and tracey kendler , devised a test for children that was explicitly based on clark hulls principles .
the children were given the task of learning to operate a machine so as to get a toy .
in order to succeed they had to go through a two stage sequence .
the children were trained on each stage separately .
welcome to further education information week .
this is the physical education facultys session and i m the head of the faculty .
during the course of this morning we hope to give you a clear idea of what we offer in our training programs and we will look at the types of courses and the entry requirements , if any , for those courses .
some of these courses are open to school leavers , but for some you need previous qualifications , or relevant successful employment .
so firstly , the physical fitness instructors course is offered as a six month certificate course which includes an important component of personal fitness but there are no specific entry requirements .
within australia , australian hotels inc ahi operates nine hotels and employs over 2000 permanent full time staff , 300 permanent part time employees and 100 casual staff .
one of its latest ventures , the sydney airport hotel sah , opened in march 1995 .
the hotel is the closest to sydney airport and is designed to provide the best available accommodation , food and beverage and meeting facilities in sydneys southern suburbs .
similar to many international hotel chains , however , ahi has experienced difficulties in australia in providing long term profits for hotel owners , as a result of the countrys high labour cost structure .
in order to develop an economically viable hotel organisation model , ahi decided to implement some new policies and practices at sah .
the first of the initiatives was an organisational structure with only three levels of management compared to the traditional seven .
partly as a result of this change , there are 25 per cent fewer management positions , enabling a significant saving .
this change also has other implications .
communication , both up and down the organisation , has greatly improved .
decision making has been forced down in many cases to front line employees .
as a result , guest requests are usually met without reference to a supervisor , improving both customer and employee satisfaction .
the hotel also recognised that it would need a different approach to selecting employees who would fit in with its new policies .
in its advertisements , the hotel stated a preference for people with some service experience in order to minimise traditional work practices being introduced into the hotel .
over 7000 applicants filled in application forms for the 120 jobs initially offered at sah .
the balance of the positions at the hotel 30 management and 40 shift leader positions were predominantly filled by transfers from other ahi properties .
a series of tests and interviews were conducted with potential employees , which eventually left 280 applicants competing for the 120 advertised positions .
after the final interview , potential recruits were divided into three categories .
category a was for applicants exhibiting strong leadership qualities , category c was for applicants perceived to be followers , and category b was for applicants with both leader and follower qualities .
department heads and shift leaders then composed prospective teams using a combination of people from all three categories .
once suitable teams were formed , offers of employment were made to team members .
another major initiative by sah was to adopt a totally multi skilled workforce .
although there may be some limitations with highly technical jobs such as cooking or maintenance , wherever possible , employees at sah are able to work in a wide variety of positions .
a multi skilled workforce provides far greater management flexibility during peak and quiet times to transfer employees to needed positions .
for example , when office staff are away on holidays during quiet periods of the year , employees in either food or beverage or housekeeping departments can temporarily .
the most crucial way , however , of improving the labour cost structure at sah was to find better , more productive ways of providing customer service .
sah management concluded this would first require a process of benchmarking .
the prime objective of the benchmarking process was to compare a range of service delivery processes across a range of criteria using teams made up of employees from different departments within the hotel which interacted with each other .
this process resulted in performance measures that greatly enhanced sahs ability to improve productivity and quality .
the front office team discovered through this project that a high proportion of ahi club member reservations were incomplete .
as a result , the service provided to these guests was below the standard promised to them as part of their membership agreement .
reducing the number of incomplete reservations greatly improved guest perceptions of service .
in addition , a program modelled on an earlier project called take charge was implemented .
essentially , take charge provides an effective feedback loop horn both customers and employees .
customer comments , both positive and negative , are recorded by staff .
these are collated regularly to identify opportunities for improvement .
just as importantly , employees are requested to note down their own suggestions for improvement .
ahi has set an expectation that employees will submit at least three suggestions for every one they receive from a customer .
employee feedback is reviewed daily and suggestions are implemented within 48 hours , if possible , or a valid reason is given for non implementation .
if suggestions require analysis or data collection , the take charge team has 30 days in which to address the issue and come up with recommendations .
although quantitative evidence of ahis initiatives at sah are limited at present , anecdotal evidence clearly suggests that these practices are working .
indeed ahi is progressively rolling out these initiatives in other hotels in australia , whilst numerous overseas visitors have come to see how the program works .
this article has been adapted and condensed fem the article by r carter 19 , implementing the cycle of success .
a case study of the sheraten pacific division , asia pacific journal of human resources .
names and other details have been changed and report findings may have been given a different emphasis from the original .
we are grateful to asia pacific journal of human resources for allowing us to use , file material in this way .
the discovery that language can be a barrier to communication is quickly made by all who travel , study , govern or sell .
whether the activity is tourism , research , government , policing , business , or data dissemination , the lack of a common language can severely impede progress or can halt it altogether .
common language here usually means a foreign language , but the same point applies in principle to any encounter with unfamiliar dialects or styles within a single language .
they dont talk the same language has a major metaphorical meaning alongside its literal one .
although communication problems of this kind must happen thousands of times each day , very few become public knowledge .
the port city provides a fascinating and rich understanding of the movement of people and qoods around the world .
we understand a port as a centre of land sea exchange , and as a major source of livelihood and a major force for cultural mixing .
but do ports all produce a range of common urban characteristics which justify classifying port cities together under a single generic label ?
do they have enough in common to warrant distinguishing them from other kinds of cities ?
a a port must be distinguished from a harbour .
they are two very different things .
most ports have poor harbours , and many fine harbours see few ships .
harbour is a physical concept , a shelter for ships .
port is an economic concept , a centre of land sea exchange which requires good access to a hinterland even more than a sea linked foreland .
it is landward access , which is productive of goods for export and which demands imports , that is critical .
poor harbours can be improved with breakwaters and dredging if there is a demand for a port .
madras and colombo are examples of harbours expensively improved by enlarging , dredging and building breakwaters .
once a port city , always a port city .
port cities become industrial , financial and service centres and political capitals because of their water connections and the urban concentration which arises there and later draws to it railways , highways and air routes .
water transport means cheap access , the chief basis of all port cities .
many of the worlds biggest cities , for example , london , new york , shanghai , istanbul , buenos aires , tokyo , jakarta , calcutta , philadelphia and san francisco began as ports that is , with land sea exchange as their major function but they have since grown disproportionately in other respects so that their port functions are no longer dominant .
they remain different kinds of places from non port cities and their port functions account for that difference .
port functions , more than anything else , make a city cosmopolitan .
a port city is open to the world .
in it races , cultures , and ideas , as well as goods from a variety of places , jostle , mix and enrich each other and the life of the city .
the smell of the sea and the harbour , the sound of boat whistles or the moving tides are symbols of their multiple links with a wide world , samples of which are present in microcosm within their own urban areas .
reasons for the decline of ports .
sea ports have been transformed by the advent of powered vessels , whose size and draught have increased .
many formerly important ports have become economically and physically less accessible as a result .
by passed by most of their former enriching flow of exchange , they have become cultural and economic backwaters or have acquired the character of museums of the past .
examples of these are charleston , salem , bristol , plymouth , surat , galle , melaka , soochow , and a long list of earlier prominent port cities in southeast asia , africa and latin america .
relative significance of trade and service industry .
much domestic port trade has not been recorded .
what evidence we have suggests that domestic trade was greater at all periods than external trade .
shanghai , for example , did most of its trade with other chinese ports and inland cities .
calcutta traded mainly with other parts of india and so on .
most of any citys population is engaged in providing goods and services for the city itself .
trade outside the city is its basic function .
but each basic worker requires food , housing , clothing and other such services .
estimates of the ratio of basic to service workers range from .
no city can be simply a port but must be involved in a variety of other activities .
the port function of the city draws to it raw materials and distributes them in many other forms .
ports take advantage of the need for breaking up the bulk material where water and land transport meet and where loading and unloading costs can be minimised by refining raw materials or turning them into finished goods .
the major examples here are oil refining and ore refining , which are commonly located at ports .
it is not easy to draw a line around what is and is not a port function .
all ports handle , unload , sort , alter , process , repack , and reship most of what they receive .
a city may still be regarded as a port city when it becomes involved in a great range of functions not immediately involved with ships or docks .
cities which began as ports retain the chief commercial and administrative centre of the city close to the waterfront .
the centre of new york is in lower manhattan between two river mouths , the city of london is on the thames , shanghai along the bund .
this proximity to water is also true of boston , philadelphia , bombay , calcutta , madras , singapore , bangkok , hong kong and yokohama , where the commercial , financial , and administrative centres are still grouped around their harbours even though each city has expanded into a metropolis .
even a casual visitor can not mistake them as anything but port cities .
i hope that this first session , which i ve called an introduction to british agriculture , will provide a helpful background to the farm visits you will be doing next week .
i think i should start by emphasising that agriculture still accounts for a very important part of this countrys economy .
we are used to hearing the uks society and economy described as being industrial or even post industrial , but we mustnt let this blind us to the fact that agriculture and its supporting industries still account for around 20 of our gross national product .
this figure is especially impressive , i think , when you bear in mind how very small a percentage of the uk workforce is employed in agriculture .
this is not a recent development you would have to go back to 1750 or so to find a majority of the workforce in this country working in agriculture .
absence from work is a costly and disruptive problem for any organisation .
the cost of absenteeism in australia has been put at 1,8 million hours per day or 1400 million annually .
the study reported here was conducted in the prince william hospital in brisbane , australia , where , prior to this time , few active steps had been taken to measure , understand or manage the occurrence of absenteeism .
a prevalent attitude amongst many nurses in the group selected for study was that there was no reward or recognition for not utilising the paid sick leave entitlement allowed them in their employment conditions .
therefore , they believed they may as well take the days off sick or otherwise .
similar attitudes have been noted by james 1989 , who noted that sick leave is seen by many workers as a right , like annual holiday leave .
miller and norton 1986 , in their survey of 865 nursing personnel , found that 73 per cent felt they should be rewarded for not taking sick leave , because some employees always used their sick leave .
further , 67 per cent of nurses felt that administration was not sympathetic to the problems shift work causes to employees personal and social lives .
only 53 per cent of the respondents felt that every effort was made to schedule staff fairly .
in another longitudinal study of nurses working in two canadian hospitals , hacket bycio and guion 1989 examined the reasons why nurses took absence from work .
the most frequent reason stated for absence was minor illness to self .
other causes in decreasing order of frequency .
illness in family , family social function , work to do at home and bereavement .
in an attempt to reduce the level of absenteeism amongst the 250 registered an enrolled nurses in the present study , the prince william management introduced three different , yet potentially complementary , strategies over 18 months .
non financial material incentives .
within the established wage and salary system it was not possible to use hospital funds to support this strategy .
however , it was possible to secure incentives from local businesses , including free passes to entertainment parks , theatres , restaurants , etc .
at the end of each roster period , the ward with the lowest absence rate would win the prize .
flexible fair rostering .
where possible , staff were given the opportunity to determine their working schedule within the limits of clinical needs .
individual absenteeism and counselling .
each month , managers would analyse the pattern of absence of staff with excessive sick leave greater than ten days per year for full time employees .
characteristic patterns of potential voluntary absenteeism such as absence before and after days off , excessive weekend and night duty absence and multiple single days off were communicated to all ward nurses and then , as necessary , followed up by action .
absence rates for the six months prior to the incentive scheme ranged from 3,69 per cent to 4,32 per cent .
in the following six months they ranged between 2,87 per cent and 3,96 per cent .
this represents a 20 per cent improvement .
however , analysing the absence rates on a year to year basis , the overall absence rate was 3,60 per cent in the first year and 3,43 per cent in the following year .
this represents a 5 per cent decrease from the first to the second year of the study .
a significant decrease in absence over the two year period could not be demonstrated .
the non financial incentive scheme did appear to assist in controlling absenteeism in the short term .
as the scheme progressed it became harder to secure prizes and this contributed to the programs losing momentum and finally ceasing .
there were mixed results across wards as well .
for example , in wards with staff members who had long term genuine illness , there was little chance of winning , and to some extent the staff on those wards were disempowered .
our experience would suggest that the long term effects of incentive awards on absenteeism are questionable .
over the time of the study , staff were given a larger degree of control in their rosters .
this led to significant improvements in communication between managers and staff .
a similar effect was found from the implementation of the third strategy .
many of the nurses had not realised the impact their behaviour was having on the organisation and their colleagues but there were also staff members who felt that talking to them about their absenteeism was picking on them and this usually had a negative effect on management employee relationships .
although there has been some decrease in absence rates , no single strategy or combination of strategies has had a significant impact on absenteeism per se .
notwithstanding the disappointing results , it is our contention that the strategies were not in vain .
a shared ownership of absenteeism and a collaborative approach to problem solving has facilitated improved cooperation and communication between management and staff .
it is our belief that this improvement alone , while not tangibly measurable , has increased the ability of management to manage the effects of absenteeism more effectively since this study .
there are now over 700 million motor vehicles in the world and the number is rising by more than 40 million each year .
the average distance driven by car users is growing too from 8 km a day per person in western europe in 1965 to 25 km a day in 1995 .
this dependence on motor vehicles has given rise to major problems , including environmental pollution , depletion of oil resources , traffic congestion and safety .
while emissions from new cars are far less harmful than they used to be , city streets and motorways are becoming more crowded than ever , often with older trucks , buses and taxis , which emit excessive levels of smoke and fumes .
this concentration of vehicles makes air quality in urban areas unpleasant and sometimes dangerous to breathe .
students who want to enter the university of montreals athletic complex need more than just a conventional id card their identities must be authenticated by an electronic hand scanner .
in some california housing estates , a key alone is insufficient to get someone in the door .
his or her voice print must also be verified .
and soon , customers at some japanese banks will have to present their faces for scanning before they can enter the building and withdraw their money .
all of these are applications of biometrics , a little known but fast growing technology that involves the use of physical or biological characteristics to identify individuals .
in use for more than a decade at some high security government institutions in the united states and canada , biometrics are now rapidly popping up in the everyday world .
this morning we are continuing our look at australia and its natural problems .
actually , dryness , or aridity , as it is generally called by geographers , is probably the most challenging of australias natural problems and so it is very important in this course for you to have a good understanding of the subject .
for australia , water is a precious resource and its wise management is of the greatest importance .
as i have said , australia is a dry continent , second only to antarctica in its lack of rainfall .
long hours of hot sunshine and searing winds give australia an extremely high rate of evaporation , far more than in most other countries .
research in britain has shown that green consumers continue to flourish as a significant group amongst shoppers .
this suggests that politicians who claim environmentalism is yesterdays issue may be seriously misjudging the public mood .
a report from mintel , the market research organisation , says that despite recession and financial pressures , more people than ever want to buy environmentally friendly products and a green wave has swept through consumerism , taking in people previously untouched by environmental concerns .
the recently published report also predicts that the process will repeat itself with ethical concerns , involving issues such as fair trade with the third world and the social record of businesses .
companies will have to be more honest and open in response to this mood .
mintels survey , based on nearly 1,000 consumers , found that the proportion who look for green products and are prepared to pay more for them has climbed from 53 per cent in 1990 to around 60 per cent in 1994 .
on average , they will pay 13 per cent more for such products , although this percentage is higher among women , managerial and professional groups and those aged 35 to 44 .
between 1990 and 1994 the proportion of consumers claiming to be unaware of or unconcerned about green issues fell from 18 to 10 per cent but the number of green spenders among older people and manual workers has risen substantially .
regions such as scotland have also caught up with the south of england in their environmental concerns .
according to mintel , the image of green consumerism as associated in the past with the more eccentric members of society has virtually disappeared .
the consumer research manager for mintel , angela hughes , said it had become firmly established as a mainstream market .
she explained that as far as the average person is concerned environmentalism has not gone off the boil .
in fact , it has spread across a much wider range of consumer groups , ages and occupations .
mintels 1994 survey found that 13 per cent of consumers are very dark green , nearly always buying environmentally friendly products , 28 per cent are dark green , trying as far as possible to buy such products , and 21 per cent are pale green tending to buy green products if they see them .
another 26 per cent are armchair greens .
they said they care about environmental issues but their concern does not affect their spending habits .
only 10 per cent say they do not care about green issues .
four in ten people are ethical spenders , buying goods which do not , for example , involve dealings with oppressive regimes .
this figure is the same as in 1990 , although the number of armchair ethicals has risen from 28 to 35 per cent and only 22 per cent say they are unconcerned now , against 30 per cent in 1990 .
hughes claims that in the twenty first century , consumers will be encouraged to think more about the entire history of the products and services they buy , including the policies of the companies that provide them and that this will require a greater degree of honesty with consumers .
among green consumers , animal testing is the top issue 48 per cent said they would be deterred from buying a product it if had been tested on animals followed by concerns regarding irresponsible selling , the ozone layer , river and sea pollution , forest destruction , recycling and factory farming .
however , concern for specific issues is lower than in 1990 , suggesting that many consumers feel that government and business have taken on the environmental agenda .
there is a great concern in europe and north america about declining standards of literacy in schools .
in britain , the fact that 30 per cent of 16 year olds have a reading age of 14 or less has helped to prompt massive educational changes .
the development of literacy has far reaching effects on general intellectual development and thus anything which impedes the development of literacy is a serious matter for us all .
so the hunt is on for the cause of the decline in literacy .
the search so far has focused on socioeconomic factors , or the effectiveness of traditional versus modern teaching techniques .
the fruitless search for the cause of the increase in illiteracy is a tragic example of the saying they cant see the wood for the trees .
when teachers use picture books , they are simply continuing a long established tradition that is accepted without question .
and for the past two decades , illustrations in reading primers have become increasingly detailed and obtrusive , while language has become impoverished sometimes to the point of extinction .
amazingly , there is virtually no empirical evidence to support the use of illustrations in teaching reading .
on the contrary , a great deal of empirical evidence shows that pictures interfere in a damaging way with all aspects of learning to read .
despite this , from north america to the antipodes , the first books that many school children receive are totally without text .
a teachers main concern is to help young beginner readers to develop not only the ability to recognise words , but the skills necessary to understand what these words mean .
even if a child is able to read aloud fluently , he or she may not be able to understand much of it .
this is called barking at text .
the teachers task of improving comprehension is made harder by influences outside the classroom .
but the adverse effects of such things as television , video games , or limited language experiences at home , can be offset by experiencing rich language at school .
instead , it is not unusual for a book of 30 or more pages to have only one sentence full of repetitive phrases .
the artwork is often marvellous , but the pictures make the language redundant , and the children have no need to imagine anything when they read such books .
looking at a picture actively prevents children younger than nine from creating a mental image , and can make it difficult for older children .
in order to learn how to comprehend , they need to practise making their own meaning in response to text .
they need to have their innate powers of imagination trained .
as they grow older , many children turn aside from books without pictures , and it is a situation made more serious as our culture becomes more visual .
it is hard to wean children off picture books when pictures have played a major part throughout their formative reading experiences , and when there is competition for their attention from so many other sources of entertainment .
the least intelligent are most vulnerable , but tests show that even intelligent children are being affected .
the response of educators has been to extend the use of pictures in books and to simplify the language , even at senior levels .
the universities of oxford and cambridge recently held joint conferences to discuss the noticeably rapid decline in literacy among their undergraduates .
pictures are also used to help motivate children to read because they are beautiful and eye catching .
but motivation to read should be provided by listening to stories well read , where children imagine in response to the story .
then , as they start to read , they have this experience to help them understand the language .
if we present pictures to save children the trouble of developing these creative skills , then i think we are making a great mistake .
academic journals ranging from educational research , psychology , language learning , psycholinguistics , and so on cite experiments which demonstrate how detrimental pictures are for beginner readers .
here is a brief selection .
the research results of the canadian educationalist dale willows were clear and consistent , pictures affected speed and accuracy and the closer the pictures were to the words , the slower and more inaccurate the childs reading became .
she claims that when children come to a word they already know , then the pictures are unnecessary and distracting .
if they do not know a word and look to the picture for a clue to its meaning , they may well be misled by aspects of the pictures which are not closely related to the meaning of the word they are trying to understand .
jay samuels , an american psychologist , found that poor readers given no pictures learnt significantly more words than those learning to read with books with pictures .
he examined the work of other researchers who had reported problems with the use of pictures and who found that a word without a picture was superior to a word plus a picture .
when children were given words and pictures , those who seemed to ignore the pictures and pointed at the words learnt more words than the children who pointed at the pictures , but they still learnt fewer words than the children who had no illustrated stimuli at all .
it has been called the holy grail of modern biology .
costing more than 2 billion , it is the most ambitious scientific project since the apollo programme that landed a man on the moon .
and it will take longer to accomplish than the lunar missions , for it will not be complete until early next century .
even before it is finished , according to those involved , this project should open up new understanding of , and new treatments for , many of the ailments that afflict humanity .
as a result of the human genome project , there will be new hope of liberation from the shadows of cancer , heart disease , autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis , and some psychiatric illnesses .
as you can see , our title is pretty straightforward car safety .
but these days theres a lot more to it than the usual injunctions about drinking and driving or speeding .
i had been interested and horrified by several newspaper reports on what people call road rage .
for example the famous incident of a man getting out of his car in a car park and hitting the driver of a van who had overtaken him earlier .
it seemed to me that there were almost as many serious problems when cars were parked were stationary as when they were travelling at 90 miles an hour .
so i decided to make this the focus of the project .
for our research we depended mainly on talking to individuals , asking them questions rather than using written questionnaires .
we stopped people at a selected garage on the motorway over a two day period , and asked them questions about what theyd observed orexperienced themselves .
our respondents were both men and women , but the women were just slightly in the majority .
we were pleased by the publics willingness to stop and chat to us .
we talked to a total of 135 drivers over those two days .
so what were our findings ?
well , as you can see , 93 of respondents had had some kind of problem .
a surprisingly large percentage 24 had had their car damaged in some way , but the main type of incident was being shouted at 79 had experienced that , 15 had experienced violence on their own persons .
theyd actually been hit by someone .
the police tended only to be informed when there was physical violence involved .
so what strategies had people developed to ensure their own safety ?
lets have a look at the figures here .
well , first of all , it was quite striking that there were often distinct answers from the men and women .
it was mainly women , for example , example who said one shouldnt ever stop to find out how to get somewhere .
whereas it was men who said you should try to avoid looking directly at other drivers .
both men and it was women who said you had to tell someone when you were due to get to a particular destination .
then , i had thought that it would be mainly men , but both sexes made the point that its much safer to get keys out well in advance as you go towards your car .
men were very aware that muggers or whatever might be concealed behind the car .
they also made the point that you should leave plenty of room when you park your car so you can make a quick getaway if you need to .
finally , locking doors at all times .
men didnt think it was quite as important as women , but both gave it a high safety rating .
the concept of the rocket , or rather the mechanism behind the idea of propelling an object into the air , has been around for well over two thousand years .
however , it wasnt until the discovery of the reaction principle , which was the key to space travel and so represents one of the great milestones in the history of scientific thought , that rocket technology was able to develop .
not only did it solve a problem that had intrigued man for ages , but , more importantly , it literally opened the door to exploration of the universe .
an intellectual breakthrough , brilliant though it may be , does not automatically ensure that the transition is made from theory to practice .
despite the fact that rockets had been used sporadically for several hundred years , they remained a relatively minor artefact of civilisation until the twentieth century .
prodigious efforts , accelerated during two world wars , were required before the technology of primitive rocketry could be translated into the reality of sophisticated astronauts .
it is strange that the rocket was generally ignored by writers of fiction to transport their heroes to mysterious realms beyond the earth , even though it had been commonly used in fireworks displays in china since the thirteenth century .
the reason is that nobody associated the reaction principle with the idea of travelling through space to a neighbouring world .
a simple analogy can help us to understand how a rocket operates .
it is much like a machine gun mounted on the rear of a boat .
in reaction to the backward discharge of bullets , the gun , and hence the boat , move forwards .
a rocket motors bullets are minute , high speed particles produced by burning propellants in a suitable chamber .
the reaction to the ejection of these small particles causes the rocket to move forwards .
there is evidence that the reaction principle was applied practically well before the rocket was invented .
in his noctes atticae or greek nights , aulus gellius describes the pigeon of archytas , an invention dating back to about 360 bc .
cylindrical in shape , made of wood , and hanging from string , it was moved to and fro by steam blowing out from small exhaust ports at either end .
the reaction to the discharging steam provided the bird with motive power .
the invention of rockets is linked inextricably with the invention of black powder .
most historians of technology credit the chinese with its discovery .
they base their belief on studies of chinese writings or on the notebooks of early europeans who settled in or made long visits to china to study its history and civilisation .
it is probable that , some time in the tenth century , black powder was first compounded from its basic ingredients of saltpetre , charcoal and sulphur .
but this does not mean that it was immediately used to propel rockets .
by the thirteenth century , powder propelled fire arrows had become rather common .
the chinese relied on this type of technological development to produce incendiary projectiles of many sorts , explosive grenades and possibly cannons to repel their enemies .
one such weapon was the basket of fire or , as directly translated from chinese , the arrows like flying leopards .
the 0,7 metre long arrows , each with a long tube of gunpowder attached near the point of each arrow , could be fired from a long , octagonal shaped basket at the same time and had a range of 400 paces .
another weapon was the arrow as a flying sabre , which could be fired from crossbows .
the rocket , placed in a similar position to other rocket propelled arrows , was designed to increase the range .
a small iron weight was attached to the 1,5m bamboo shaft , just below the feathers , to increase the arrows stability by moving the centre of gravity to a position below the rocket .
at a similar time , the arabs had developed the egg which moves and burns .
this egg was apparently full of gunpowder and stabilised by a 1,5m tail .
it was fired using two rockets attached to either side of this tail .
it was not until the eighteenth century that europe became seriously interested in the possibilities of using the rocket itself as a weapon of war and not just to propel other weapons .
prior to this , rockets were used only in pyrotechnic displays .
the incentive for the more aggressive use of rockets came not from within the european continent but from far away india , whose leaders had built up a corps of rocketeers and used rockets successfully against the british in the late eighteenth century .
the indian rockets used against the british were described by a british captain serving in india as an iron envelope about 200 millimetres long and 40 millimetres in diameter with sharp points at the top and a 3m long bamboo guiding stick .
in the early nineteenth century the british began to experiment with incendiary barrage rockets .
the british rocket differed from the indian version in that it was completely encased in a stout , iron cylinder , terminating in a conical head , measuring one metre in diameter and having a stick almost five metres long and constructed in such a way that it could be firmly attached to the body of the rocket .
the americans developed a rocket , complete with its own launcher , to use against the mexicans in the mid nineteenth century .
a long cylindrical tube was propped up by two sticks and fastened to the top of the launcher , thereby allowing the rockets to be inserted and lit from the other end .
however , the results were sometimes not that impressive as the behaviour of the rockets in flight was less than predictable .
since then , there have been huge developments in rocket technology , often with devastating results in the forum of war .
nevertheless , the modern day space programs owe their success to the humble beginnings of those in previous centuries who developed the foundations of the reaction principle .
who knows what it will be like in the future ?
discovered in the early 1800s and named nicotianine , the oily essence now called nicotine is the main active ingredient of tobacco .
nicotine , however , is only a small component of cigarette smoke , which contains more than 4,700 chemical compounds , including 43 cancer causing substances .
in recent times , scientific research has been providing evidence that years of cigarette smoking vastly increases the risk of developing fatal medical conditions .
in addition to being responsible for more than 85 per cent of lung cancers , smoking is associated with cancers of , amongst others , the mouth , stomach and kidneys , and is thought to cause about 14 per cent of leukemia and cervical cancers .
in 1990 , smoking caused more than 84,000 deaths , mainly resulting from such problems as pneumonia , bronchitis and influenza .
smoking , it is believed , is responsible for 30 per cent of all deaths from cancer and clearly represents the most important preventable cause of cancer in countries like the united states today .
passive smoking , the breathing in of the side stream smoke from the burning of tobacco between puffs or of the smoke exhaled by a smoker , also causes a serious health risk .
a report published in 1992 by the us environmental protection agency epa emphasized the health dangers , especially from side stream smoke .
this type of smoke contains more , smaller particles and is therefore more likely to be deposited deep in the lungs .
on the basis of this report , the epa has classified environmental tobacco smoke in the highest risk category for causing cancer .
as an illustration of the health risks , in the case of a married couple where one partner is a smoker and one a non smoker , the latter is believed to have a 30 per cent higher risk of death from heart disease because of passive smoking .
the risk of lung cancer also increases over the years of exposure and the figure jumps to 80 per cent if the spouse has been smoking four packs a day for 20 years .
it has been calculated that 17 per cent of cases of lung cancer can be attributed to high levels of exposure to second hand tobacco smoke during childhood and adolescence .
a more recent study by researchers at the university of california at san francisco ucsf has shown that second hand cigarette smoke does more harm to non smokers than to smokers .
leaving aside the philosophical question of whether anyone should have to breathe someone elses cigarette smoke , the report suggests that the smoke experienced by many people in their daily lives is enough to produce substantial adverse effects on a persons heart and lungs .
the report , published in the journal of the american medical association ama , was based on the researchers own earlier research but also includes a review of studies over the past few years .
the american medical association represents about half of all us doctors and is a strong opponent of smoking .
the study suggests that people who smoke cigarettes are continually damaging their cardiovascular system , which adapts in order to compensate for the effects of smoking .
it further states that people who do not smoke do not have the benefit of their system adapting to the smoke inhalation .
consequently , the effects of passive smoking are far greater on non smokers than on smokers .
nicotine and other toxins in cigarette smoke activate small blood cells called platelets , which increases the likelihood of blood clots , thereby affecting blood circulation throughout the body .
the researchers criticize the practice of some scientific consultants who work with the tobacco industry for assuming that cigarette smoke has the same impact on smokers as it does on non smokers .
they argue that those scientists are underestimating the damage done by passive smoking and , in support of their recent findings , cite some previous research which points to passive smoking as the cause for between 30,000 and 60,000 deaths from heart attacks each year in the united states .
this means that passive smoking is the third most preventable cause of death after active smoking and alcohol related diseases .
the study argues that the type of action needed against passive smoking should be similar to that being taken against illegal drugs and aids sida .
the ucsf researchers maintain that the simplest and most cost effective action is to establish smoke free work places , schools and public places .
hypotheses , said medawar in 1964 , are imaginative and inspirational in character .
they are adventures of the mind .
he was arguing in favour of the position taken by karl popper in the logic of scientific discovery 1972 , 3rd edition that the nature of scientific method is hypothetico deductive and not , as is generally believed , inductive .
it is essential that you , as an intending researcher , understand the difference between these two interpretations of the research process so that you do not become discouraged or begin to suffer from a feeling of cheating or not going about it the right way .
the myth of scientific method is that it is inductive .
that the formulation of scientific theory starts with the basic , raw evidence of the senses simple , unbiased , unprejudiced observation .
out of these sensory data commonly referred to as facts generalisations will form .
todays health counsel is presented by paula clayburg , who is the chief counsellor at liverpools famous pain clinic .
do you know what prince charles , seve ballesteros and elizabeth taylor have in common ?
they all suffer from chronic back pain .
in fact , bad backs are one of the most common health problems today , affecting people in all walks of life .
the most recent available figures show that about a quarter of a million people are incapacitated with back pain every day .
more than 4,000 species of these remarkable creatures have evolved and adapted to the worlds different climates and the dung of its many animals .
australias native dung beetles are scrub and woodland dwellers , specialising in coarse marsupial droppings and avoiding the soft cattle dung in which bush flies and buffalo flies breed .
some of the most remarkable beetles are the dung beetles , which spend almost their whole lives eating and breeding in dung .
in the early 1960s george bornemissza , then a scientist at the australian governments premier research organisation , the commonwealth scientific and industrial research organisation csiro , suggested that dung beetles should be introduced to australia to control dung breeding flies .
between 1968 and 1982 , the csiro imported insects from about 50 different species of dung beetle , from asia , europe and africa , aiming to match them to different climatic zones in australia .
of the 26 species that are known to have become successfully integrated into the local environment , only one , an african species released in northern australia , has reached its natural boundary .
introducing dung beetles into a pasture is a simple process .
approximately 1500 beetles are released , a handful at a time , into fresh cow pats2 in the cow pasture .
the beetles immediately disappear beneath the pats digging and tunnelling .
if they successfully adapt to their new environment , soon become a permanent , self sustaining part of the local ecology .
in time they multiply and within three or four years the benefits to the pasture are obvious .
dung beetles work from the inside of the pat so they are sheltered from predators such as birds and foxes .
most species burrow into the soil and bury dung in tunnels directly underneath the pats , which are hollowed out from within .
some large species originating from france excavate tunnels to a depth of approximately 30 cm below the dung pat .
these beetles make sausage shaped brood chambers along the tunnels .
the shallowest tunnels belong to a much smaller spanish species that buries dung in chambers that hang like fruit from the branches of a pear tree .
south african beetles dig narrow tunnels of approximately 20 cm below the surface of the pat .
some surface dwelling beetles , including a south african species , cut perfectly shaped balls from the pat , which are rolled away and attached to the bases of plants .
for maximum dung burial in spring , summer and autumn , farmers require a variety of species with overlapping periods of activity .
in the cooler environments of the state of victoria , the large french species 2,5 cms long is matched with smaller half this size , temperate climate spanish species .
the former are slow to recover from the winter cold and produce only one or two generations of offspring from late spring until autumn .
the latter , which multiply rapidly in early spring , produce two to five generations annually .
the south african ball rolling species , being a subtropical beetle , prefers the climate of northern and coastal new south wales where it commonly works with the south african tunnelling species .
in warmer climates , many species are active for longer periods of the year .
dung beetles were initially introduced in the late 1960s with a view to controlling buffalo flies by removing the dung within a day or two and so preventing flies from breeding .
however , other benefits have become evident .
once the beetle larvae have finished pupation , the residue is a first rate source of fertiliser .
the tunnels abandoned by the beetles provide excellent aeration and water channels for root systems .
in addition , when the new generation of beetles has left the nest the abandoned burrows are an attractive habitat for soil enriching earthworms .
the digested dung in these burrows is an excellent food supply for the earthworms , which decompose it further to provide essential soil nutrients .
if it were not for the dung beetle , chemical fertiliser and dung would be washed by rain into streams and rivers before it could be absorbed into the hard earth , polluting water courses and causing blooms of blue green algae .
without the beetles to dispose of the dung , cow pats would litter pastures making grass inedible to cattle and depriving the soil of sunlight .
australias 30 million cattle each produce 10 12 cow pats a day .
this amounts to 1,7 billion tonnes a year , enough to smother about 110,000 sq km of pasture , half the area of victoria .
dung beetles have become an integral part of the successful management of dairy farms in australia over the past few decades .
a number of species are available from the csiro or through a small number of private breeders , most of whom were entomologists with the csiros dung beetle unit who have taken their specialised knowledge of the insect and opened small businesses in direct competition with their former employer .
a the role of governments in environmental management is difficult but inescapable .
sometimes , the state tries to manage the resources it owns , and does so badly .
often , however , governments act in an even more harmful way .
they actually subsidise the exploitation and consumption of natural resources .
a whole range of policies , from farm price support to protection for coal mining , do environmental damage and often make no economic sense .
weve looked at various aspects of staff selection this term and i think by now you should all be beginning to see how much more there is to it than just putting applicants through a short interview or asking the right questions .
so i think you should be ready for todays tutorial on matching the person to the job .
were going to talk today about the importance of choosing that all round right person .
so we have to put ourselves into the role of the manager or supervisor ?
and then were going to imagine how different applicants would fit into the team or group they have to work with er well look at some examples later .
the point is , you can select someone even a friend who has all the right qualifications degrees certificates , whatever .
you can also check that they have a lot of experience that theyve done the sort of tasks that you want them to do in your office already , in a similar environment .
but if they start work and you realise that they just dont get along with everybody else , that say , theyve got sharply contrasting views on how something will work well , with the best will in the world , you may be backing a loser .
particularly in a team situation , and i think its important to think in terms of that type of working environment .
people have to have faith in each others ability to carry out the task their boss has set them .
they have to trust that everyone will do their part of the job , and you cant necessarily train people for this .
even if you try , you wont find out what theyre really like until they actually start work .
they have to be filled out by the candidates some time during the selection procedure , often just before an interview .
the idea is actually quite old .
apparently they were used by the ancient chinese for picking out clerks and civil servants , and then later they were used by the military to put people in appropriate areas of work .
theyve gained a lot of ground since then and there are about 80,000 different tests available now and almost two thirds of the large employers use them .
they ask the sort of questions that you might expect , like do you like working under pressure or are you good at keeping deadlines .
apparently it isnt .
these tests are compiled by experts and they believe that the answers can provide a few simple indicators as to roughly the type of person that you are that people will generally be truthful in that situation .
any individual in any situation occupies a role in relation to other people .
the particular individual with whom one is concerned in the analysis of any situation is usually given the name of focal person .
he has the focal role and can be regarded as sitting in the middle of a group of people , with whom he interacts in some way in that situation .
this group of people is called his role set .
for instance , in the family situation , an individuals role set might be shown as in figure 6 .
the role set should include all those with whom the individual has more than trivial interactions .
the definition of any individuals role in any situation will be a combination of the role expectations that the members of the role set have of the focal role .
these expectations are often occupationally denned , sometimes even legally so .
the role definitions of lawyers and doctors are fairly clearly defined both in legal and in cultural terms .
the role definitions of , say , a film star or bank manager , are also fairly clearly defined in cultural terms , too clearly perhaps .
individuals often find it hard to escape from the role that cultural traditions have defined for them .
not only with doctors or lawyers is the required role behaviour so constrained that if you are in that role for long it eventually becomes part of you , part of your personality .
hence , there is some likelihood that all accountants will be alike or that all blondes are similar they are forced that way by the expectations of their role .
it is often important that you make it clear what your particular role is at a given time .
the means of doing this are called , rather obviously , role signs .
the simplest of role signs is a uniform .
the number of stripes on your arm or pips on your shoulder is a very precise role definition which allows you to do certain very prescribed things in certain situations .
imagine yourself questioning a stranger on a dark street at midnight without wearing the role signs of a policeman !
in social circumstances , dress has often been used as a role sign to indicate the nature and degree of formality of any gathering and occasionally the social status of people present .
the current trend towards blurring these role signs in dress is probably democratic , but it also makes some people very insecure .
without role signs , who is to know who has what role ?
place is another role sign .
managers often behave very differently outside the office and in it , even to the same person .
they use a change of location to indicate a change in role from , say , boss to friend .
indeed , if you wish to change your roles you must find some outward sign that you are doing so or you wont be permitted to change .
the subordinate will continue to hear you as his boss no matter how hard you try to be his friend .
in very significant cases of role change , eg from a soldier in the ranks to officer , from bachelor to married man , the change of role has to have a very obvious sign , hence rituals .
it is interesting to observe , for instance , some decline in the emphasis given to marriage rituals .
this could be taken as an indication that there is no longer such a big change in role from single to married person , and therefore no need for a public change in sign .
in organisations , office signs and furniture are often used as role signs .
these and other perquisites of status are often frowned upon , but they may serve a purpose as a kind of uniform in a democratic society .
roles without signs often lead to confused or differing expectations of the role of the focal person .
role ambiguity results when there is some uncertainty in the minds , either of the focal person or of the members of his role set , as to precisely what his role is at any given time .
one of the crucial expectations that shape the role definition is that of the individual , the focal person himself .
if his occupation of the role is unclear , or if it differs from that of the others in the role set , there will be a degree of role ambiguity .
is this bad ?
not necessarily , for the ability to shape ones own role is one of the freedoms that many people desire , but the ambiguity may lead to role stress which will be discussed later on .
the virtue of j ob descriptions is that they lessen this role ambiguity .
unfortunately , job descriptions are seldom complete role definitions , except at the lower end of the scale .
at middle and higher management levels , they are often a list of formal jobs and duties that say little about the more subtle and informal expectations of the role .
the result is therefore to give the individual an uncomfortable feeling that there are things left unsaid , example to heighten the sense of role ambiguity .
looking at role ambiguity from the other side , from the point of view of the members of the role set , lack of clarity in the role of the focal person can cause insecurity , lack of confidence , irritation and even anger among members of his role set .
one list of the roles of a manager identified the following .
executive , planner , policy maker , expert , controller of rewards and punishments , counsellor , friend , teacher .
if it is not clear , through role signs of one sort or another , which role is currently the operational one , the other party may not react in the appropriate way we may , in fact , hear quite another message if the focal person speaks to us , for example , as a teacher and we hear her as an executive .
the department of ethnography was created as a separate deportment within the british museum in 1946 , offer 140 years of gradual development from the original department of antiquities .
if is concerned with the people of africa , the americas , asia , the pacific and parts of europe .
while this includes complex kingdoms as in africa , and ancient empires , such as those of the americas , the primary focus of attention in the twentieth century has been on small scale societies .
through its collections , the departments specific interest is to document how objects are created and used , and to understand their importance and significance to those who produce them .
such objects can include both the extraordinary and the mundane , the beautiful and the banal .
the collections of the department of ethnography include approximately 300,000 artefacts , of which about half are the product of the present century .
the department has a vital role to play in providing information on non western cultures to visitors and scholars .
to this end , the collecting emphasis has often been less on individual objects than on groups of material which allow the display of a broad range of o societys cultural expressions .
much of the more recent collecting was carried out in the field , sometimes by museum staff working on general anthropological projects in collaboration with a wide variety of national governments and other institutions .
the material collected includes great technical series for instance , of textiles from bolivia , guatemala , indonesia and at areas of west africa or of artefact types such as boats .
the latter include working examples of coracles from india , reed boars from lake titicaca in the andes , kayaks from the arctic , and dug out canoes from several countries .
the field assemblages , such as those from the sudan , madagascar and yemen , include a whole range of material culture representative of one people .
this might cover the necessities of life of an african herdsman or on arabian farmer , ritual objects , or even on occasion airport art .
again , a series of acquisitions might represent a decades fieldwork documenting social experience as expressed in the varieties of clothing and jewellery styles , tents and camel trappings from various middle eastern countries , or in the developing preferences in personal adornment and dress from papua new guinea .
particularly interesting are a series of collections which continue to document the evolution of ceremony and of material forms for which the department already possesses early if nor the earliest collections formed after the first contact with europeans .
the importance of these acquisitions extends beyond the objects themselves .
they come fo the museum with documentation of the social context , ideally including photographic records .
such acquisitions have multiple purposes .
most significantly they document for future change .
most people think of the cultures represented in the collection in terms of the absence of advanced technology .
in fact , traditional practices draw on a continuing wealth of technological ingenuity .
limited resources and ecological constraints are often overcome by personal skills that would be regarded as exceptional in the west .
of growing interest is the way in which much of what we might see as disposable is , elsewhere , recycled and reused .
with the independence of much of asia and africa after 1945 , if was assumed that economic progress would rapidly lead to the disappearance or assimilation of many small scale societies .
therefore , it was felt that the museum should acquire materials representing people whose art or material culture , ritual or political structures were on the point of irrevocable change .
this attitude altered with the realisation that marginal communities can survive and adapt in spire of partial integration into a notoriously fickle world economy .
since the seventeenth century , with the advent of trading companies exporting manufactured textiles to north america and asia , the importation of cheap goods has often contributed to the destruction of local skills and indigenous markets .
on the one hand modern imported goods may be used in an everyday setting , while on the other hand other traditional objects may still be required for ritually significant events .
within this context trade and exchange attitudes are inverted .
what are utilitarian objects to a westerner may be prized objects in other cultures when transformed by local ingenuity principally for aesthetic value .
in the some way , the west imports goods from other peoples and in certain circumstances categorises them as art .
collections act as an ever expanding database , nor merely for scholars and anthropologists , bur for people involved in a whole range of educational and artistic purposes .
these include schools and universities as well as colleges of art and design .
the provision of information about non western aesthetics and techniques , not just for designers and artists but for all visitors , is a growing responsibility for a department whose own context is an increasingly multicultural european society .
in 1942 allan r holmberg , a doctoral student in anthropology from yale university , usa , ventured deep into the jungle of bolivian amazonia and searched out an isolated band of siriono indians .
the siriono , holmberg later wrote , led a strikingly backward existence .
their villages were little more than clusters of thatched huts .
life itself was a perpetual and punishing search for food .
some families grew manioc and other starchy crops in small garden plots cleared from the forest , while other members of the tribe scoured the country for small game and promising fish holes .
when local resources became depleted , the tribe moved on .
hormone levels and hence our moods may be affected by the weather .
gloomy weather can cause depression , but sunshine appears to raise the spirits .
in britain , for example , the dull weather of winter drastically cuts down the amount of sunlight that is experienced which strongly affects some people .
they become so depressed and lacking in energy that their work and social life are affected .
this condition has been given the name sad seasonal affective disorder .
sufferers can fight back by making the most of any sunlight in winter and by spending a few hours each day under special , full spectrum lamps .
these provide more ultraviolet and blue green light than ordinary fluorescent and tungsten lights .
some russian scientists claim that children learn better after being exposed to ultraviolet light .
in warm countries , hours of work are often arranged so that workers can take a break , or even a siesta , during the hottest part of the day .
scientists are working to discover the links between the weather and human beings moods and performance .
it is generally believed that tempers grow shorter in hot , muggy weather .
there is no doubt that crimes against the person rise in the summer , when the weather is hotter and fall in the winter when the weather is colder .
research in the united states has shown a relationship between temperature and street riots .
the frequency of riots rises dramatically as the weather gets warmer , hitting a peak around 27 30 c .
but is this effect really due to a mood change caused by the heat ?
some scientists argue that trouble starts more often in hot weather merely because there are more people in the street when the weather is good .
psychologists have also studied how being cold affects performance .
researchers compared divers working in icy cold water at , with others in water at 20 c about swimming pool temperature .
the colder water made the divers worse at simple arithmetic and other mental tasks .
but significantly , their performance was impaired as soon as they were put into the cold water before their bodies had time to cool down .
this suggests that the low temperature did not slow down mental functioning directly , but the feeling of cold distracted the divers from their tasks .
psychologists have conducted studies showing that people become less sceptical and more optimistic when the weather is sunny .
however , this apparently does not just depend on the temperature .
an american psychologist studied customers in a temperature controlled restaurant .
they gave bigger tips when the sun was shining and smaller tips when it wasnt , even though the temperature in the restaurant was the same .
a link between weather and mood is made believable by the evidence for a connection between behaviour and the length of the daylight hours .
this in turn might involve the level of a hormone called melatonin , produced in the pineal gland in the brain .
the amount of melatonin falls with greater exposure to daylight .
research shows that melatonin plays an important part in the seasonal behaviour of certain animals .
for example , food consumption of stags increases during the winter , reaching a peak in february march .
it falls again to a low point in may , then rises to a peak in september , before dropping to another minimum in november .
these changes seem to be triggered by varying melatonin levels .
in the laboratory , hamsters put on more weight when the nights are getting shorter and their melatonin levels are falling .
on the other hand , if they are given injections of melatonin , they will stop eating altogether .
it seems that time cues provided by the changing lengths of day and night trigger changes in animals behaviour changes that are needed to cope with the cycle of the seasons .
peoples moods too , have been shown to react to the length of the daylight hours .
sceptics might say that longer exposure to sunshine puts people in a better mood because they associate it with the happy feelings of holidays and freedom from responsibility .
however , the belief that rain and murky weather make people more unhappy is borne out by a study in belgium , which showed that a telephone counselling service gets more telephone calls from people with suicidal feelings when it rains .
when there is a thunderstorm brewing , some people complain of the air being heavy and of feeling irritable , moody and on edge .
they may be reacting to the fact that the air can become slightly positively charged when large thunderclouds are generating the intense electrical fields that cause lightning flashes .
the positive charge increases the levels of serotonin a chemical involved in sending signals in the nervous system .
high levels of serotonin in certain areas of the nervous system make people more active and reactive and , possibly , more aggressive .
when certain winds are blowing , such as the mistral in southern france and the fohn in southern germany , mood can be affected and the number of traffic accidents rises .
it may be significant that the concentration of positively charged particles is greater than normal in these winds .
in the united kingdom , 400000 ionizers are sold every year .
these small machines raise the number of negative ions in the air in a room .
many people claim they feel better in negatively charged air .
air pollution is increasingly becoming the focus of government and citizen concern around the globe .
from mexico city and new york , to singapore and tokyo , new solutions to this old problem are being proposed , mailed and implemented with ever increasing speed .
it is feared that unless pollution reduction measures are able to keep pace with the continued pressures of urban growth , air quality in many of the worlds major cities will deteriorate beyond reason .
action is being taken along several fronts through new legislation , improved enforcement and innovative technology .
in los angeles , state regulations are forcing manufacturers to try to sell ever cleaner cars .
their first of the cleanest , titled zero emission vehicles , hope to be available soon , since they are intended to make up 2 per cent of sales in 1997 .
the suffragette movement , which campaigned for votes for women in the early twentieth century , is most commonly associated with the pankhurst family and militant acts of varying degrees of violence .
the museum of london has drawn on its archive collection to convey a fresh picture with its exhibition the purple , white and green .
suffragettes in london 1906 14 .
the name is a reference to the colour scheme that the womens social and political union wspu created to give the movement a uniform , nationwide image .
by doing so , it became one of the first groups to project a corporate identity , and it is this advanced marketing strategy , along with the other organisational and commercial achievements of the wspu , to which the exhibition is devoted .
formed in 1903 by the political campaigner mrs emmeline pankhurst and her daughters christabel and sylvia , the wspu began an educated campaign to put womens suffrage on the political agenda .
new zealand , australia and parts of the united states had already enfranchised women , and growing numbers of their british counterparts wanted the same opportunity .
with their slogan deeds not words , and the introduction of the colour scheme , the wspu soon brought the movement the cohesion and focus it had previously lacked .
membership grew rapidly as women deserted the many other , less directed , groups and joined it .
by 1906 the wspu headquarters , called the womens press shop , had been established in charing cross road and in spite of limited communications no radio or television , and minimal use of the telephone the message had spread around the country , with members and branch officers stretching to as far away as scotland .
the newspapers produced by the wspu , first votes for women and later the suffragette , played a vital role in this communication .
both were sold throughout the country and proved an invaluable way of informing members of meetings , marches , fund raising events and the latest news and views on the movement .
equally importantly for a rising political group , the newspaper returned a profit .
this was partly because advertising space was bought in the paper by large department stores such as selfridges , and jewellers such as mappin webb .
these two , together with other like minded commercial enterprises sympathetic to the cause , had quickly identified a direct way to reach a huge market of women , many with money to spend .
the creation of the colour scheme provided another money making opportunity which the wspu was quick to exploit .
the group began to sell playing cards , board games , christmas and greeting cards , and countless other goods , all in the purple , white and green colours .
in 1906 such merchandising of a corporate identity was a new marketing concept .
but the paper and merchandising activities alone did not provide sufficient funds for the wspu to meet organisational costs , so numerous other fund raising activities combined to fill the coffers of the war chest .
the most notable of these was the womans exhibition , which took place in 1909 in a knightsbridge ice skating rink , and in 10 days raised the equivalent of 250,000 today .
the museum of londons exhibition is largely visual , with a huge number of items on show .
against a quiet background hum of street sounds , copies of the suffragette , campaign banners and photographs are all on display , together with one of mrs pankhursts shoes and a number of purple , white and green trinkets .
photographs depict vivid scenes of a suffragettes life .
wspu members on a self proclaimed monster march , wearing their official uniforms of a white frock decorated with purple , white and green accessories .
women selling the suffragette at street corners , or chalking up pavements with details of a forthcoming meeting .
windows display postcards and greeting cards designed by women artists for the movement , and the quality of the artwork indicates the wealth of resources the wspu could call on from its talented members .
visitors can watch a short film made up of old newsreels and cinema material which clearly reveals the political mood of the day towards the suffragettes .
the programme begins with a short film devised by the antis those opposed to women having the vote depicting a suffragette as a fierce harridan bullying her poor , abused husband .
original newsreel footage shows the suffragette emily wilding davison throwing herself under king george vs horse at a famous race although the exhibition officially charts the years 1906 to 1914 , graphic display boards outlining the bills of enfranchisement of 1918 and 1928 , which gave the adult female populace of britain the vote , show what was achieved .
it demonstrates how advanced the suffragettes were in their thinking , in the marketing of their campaign , and in their work as shrewd and skilful image builders .
it also conveys a sense of the energy and ability the suffragettes brought to their fight for freedom and equality .
and it illustrates the intelligence employed by women who were at that time deemed by several politicians to have brains too small to know how to vote .
there is clear cut evidence that , for a period of at least one year , supervision which increases the direct pressure for productivity can achieve significant increases in production .
however , such short term increases are obtained only at a substantial and serious cost to the organisation .
to what extent can a manager make an impressive earnings record over a short period of one to three years by exploiting the companys investment in the human organisation in his plant or division ?
to what extent will the quality of his organisation suffer if he does so ?
the following is a description of an important study conducted by the institute for social research designed to answer these questions .
the study covered 500 clerical employees in four parallel divisions .
each division was organised in exactly the same way , used the same technology , did exactly the same kind of work , and had employees of comparable aptitudes .
productivity in all four of the divisions depended on the number of clerks involved .
the work entailed the processing of accounts and generating of invoices .
although the volume of work was considerable , the nature of the business was such that it could only be processed as it came along .
consequently , the only way in which productivity could be increased was to change the size of the workgroup .
the four divisions were assigned to two experimental programmes on a random basis .
each programme was assigned at random a division that had been historically high in productivity and a division that had been below average in productivity .
no attempt was made to place a division in the programme that would best fit its habitual methods of supervision used by the manager , assistant managers , supervisors and assistant supervisors .
the experiment at the clerical level lasted for one year .
beforehand , several months were devoted to planning , and there was also a training period of approximately six months .
productivity was measured continuously and computed weekly throughout the year .
the attitudes of employees and supervisory staff towards their work were measured just before and after the period .
turning now to the heart of the study , in two divisions an attempt was made to change the supervision so that the decision levels were pushed down and detailed supervision of the workers reduced .
more general supervision of the clerks and their supervisors was introduced .
in addition , the managers , assistant managers , supervisors and assistant supervisors of these two divisions were trained in group methods of leadership , which they endeavoured to use as much as their skill would permit during the experimental year .
for easy reference , the experimental changes in these two divisions will be labelled the participative programme !
in the other two divisions , by contrast , the programme called for modifying the supervision so as to increase the closeness of supervision and move the decision levels upwards .
this will be labelled the hierarchically controlled programme .
these changes were accomplished by a further extension of the scientific management approach .
for example , one of the major changes made was to have the jobs timed and to have standard times computed .
this showed that these divisions were overstaffed by about 30 .
the general manager then ordered the managers of these two divisions to cut staff by 25 .
this was done by transfers without replacing the persons who left .
no one was to be dismissed .
results of the experiment changes in productivity figure 1 shows the changes in salary costs per unit of work , which reflect the change in productivity that occurred in the divisions .
as will be observed , the hierarchically controlled programmes increased productivity by about 25 .
this was a result of the direct orders from the general manager to reduce staff by that amount .
direct pressure produced a substantial increase in production .
a significant increase in productivity of 2o was also achieved in the participative programme , but this was not as great an increase as in the hierarchically controlled programme .
to bring about this improvement , the clerks themselves participated in the decision to reduce the size of the work group .
they were aware of course that productivity increases were sought by management in conducting these experiments .
obviously , deciding to reduce the size of a work group by eliminating some of its members is probably one of the most difficult decisions for a work group to make .
yet the clerks made it .
in fact , one division in the participative programme increased its productivity by about the same amount as each of the two divisions in the hierarchically controlled programme .
the other participative division , which historically had been the poorest of all the divisions , did not do so well and increased productivity by only 15 .
changes in attitudes although both programmes had similar effects on productivity , they had significantly different results in other respects .
the productivity increases in the hierarchically controlled programme were accompanied by shifts in an adverse direction in such factors as loyalty , attitudes , interest , and involvement in the work .
but just the opposite was true in the participative programme .
for example , figure 2 shows that when more general supervision and increased participation were provided , the employees feeling of responsibility to see that the work got done increased .
again , when the supervisor was away , they kept on working .
in the hierarchically controlled programme , however , the feeling of responsibility decreased , and when the supervisor was absent , work tended to stop .
as figure 3 shows , the employees in the participative programme at the end of the year felt that their manager and assistant manager were closer to them than at the beginning of the year .
the opposite was true in the hierarchical programme .
moreover , as figure 4 shows , employees in the participative programme felt that their supervisors were more likely to pull for them , or for the company and them , and not be solely interested in the company , while in the hierarchically controlled programme , the opposite trend occurred .
im paula bundell and i am giving you the lectures on environmental noise this term .
today we are going to look into the effects of noise on a planned housing estate in a particularly difficult part of the new manchester park area .
this site is not as bad as some i have researched in the past .
the blacktown airport is closed from 6pm to 7am and this is a great advantage to this site .
adults and children are frequently confronted with statements about the alarming rate of loss of tropical rainforests .
for example , one graphic illustration to which children might readily relate is the estimate that rainforests are being destroyed at a rate equivalent to one thousand football fields every forty minutes about the duration of a normal classroom period .
in the face of the frequent and often vivid media coverage , it is likely that children will have formed ideas about rainforests what and where they are , why they are important , what endangers them independent of any formal tuition .
it is also possible that some of these ideas will be mistaken .
many studies have shown that children harbour misconceptions about pure , curriculum science .
these misconceptions do not remain isolated but become remain incorporated into a multifaceted , but organised , conceptual framework , making it and the component ideas , some of which are erroneous , more robust but also accessible to modification .
these ideas may be developed by children absorbing ideas through the popular media .
sometimes this information may be erroneous .
it seems schools may not be providing an opportunity for children tore express their ideas and so have them tested and refined by teachers and their peers .
despite the extensive coverage in the popular media of the destruction of rainforests , little formal information is available about childrens ideas in this area .
the aim of the present study is to start to provide such information , to help teachers design their educational strategies to build upon correct ideas and to displace misconceptions and to plan programmes in environmental studies in their schools .
the study surveys childrens scientific knowledge and attitudes to rainforests .
secondary school children were asked to complete a questionnaire containing five open form questions .
the most frequent responses to the first question were descriptions which are self evident from the term rainforest .
some children described them as damp , wet or hot .
the second question concerned the geographical location of rainforests .
the commonest responses were continents or countries .
africa given by 43 of children , south america 30 , brazil 25 .
some children also gave more general locations , such as being near the equator .
responses to question three concerned the importance of rainforests .
the dominant idea , raised by 64 of the pupils , was that rainforests provide animals with habitats .
fewer students responded that rainforests provide plant habitats , and even fewer mentioned the indigenous populations of rainforests .
more girls 70 than boys 60 raised the idea of rainforest as animal habitats .
similarly , but at a lower level , more girls 13 than boys 5 said that rainforests provided human habitats .
these observations are generally consistent with our previous studies of pupils views about the use and conservation of observations rainforests , in which girls were shown to be more sympathetic to animals and expressed views which seem to place an intrinsic value on non human animal life .
the fourth question concerned the causes of the destruction of rainforests .
perhaps encouragingly , more than half of the pupils 59 identified that it is human activities which are destroying rainforests , some personalising the responsibility by the use of terms such as we are .
about 18 of the pupils referred specifically to logging activity .
one misconception , expressed by some 10 of the pupils , was that acid rain is responsible for rainforest destruction .
a similar proportion said that pollution is destroying rainforests .
here , children are confusing rainforest destruction with damage to the forests of western europe by these factors .
while two fifths of the students provided the information that the rainforests provide oxygen , in some cases this response also incompatible embraced the misconception that rainforest destruction would reduce atmospheric oxygen , making the atmosphere incompatible with human life on earth .
in answer to the final question about the importance of rainforest conservation , the majority of children simply said that we need rainforests to survive .
only a few of the pupils 6 mentioned that rainforest destruction may contribute to global warming .
this is surprising considering the high level of media coverage on this issue .
some children expressed the idea that the conservation of rainforests is not important .
the results of this study suggest that certain ideas predominate in the thinking of children about rainforests .
pupils responses indicate some misconceptions in basic scientific knowledge of rainforests ecosystems such as their ideas about rainforests as habitats for animals , plants and humans and the relationship between climatic change and destruction of rainforests .
pupils did not volunteer ideas that suggested that they appreciated the complexity of causes of rainforest destruction .
in other words , they gave no indication of an appreciation of either the range of ways in which rainforests are important or the complex social , economic and political factors which drive the activities which are destroying the rainforests .
one encouragement is that the results of similar studies about other environmental issues suggest that older children seem to acquire the ability to appreciate , value and evaluate conflicting views .
environmental education offers an arena in which these skills can be developed , which is essential for these children as future decision makers .
good afternoon everybody and welcome to riverside industrial village .
to start your visit im just going to give you a brief account of the history of the museum before letting you roam about on your own .
i wont keep you long .
now , from where were standing youve got a good view of river over there .
it was because of this fast flowing water that this site was natural place for manufacturing works .
the water and the availability of raw materials in the area , like minerals and iron ore , and , also the abundance of local fuels , like coal and firewood , all made this site suitable for industry from a very early time .
water was the main source of power for the early industries and some of water wheels were first established in the twelfth century , would you believe ?
at that time , local craftsmen first built an iron forge just behind the village here , on the bend in the river .
by the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries the regions rivers supported more than a hundred and sixty water mills and many of these continued to operate well into nineteenth century .
but then the steam engine was invented and the railways came and the centres of industry was able to move away from the rivers and the countryside and into the towns .
so industrial villages like this one became very rare .
so thats the history for you if youd like any more information , you can ask me some questions , or you can read further in our excellent guide book .
now im going to give you a plan of this site and id just like to point out where everything is and then you can take a look at everything for yourself .
we are standing at the entrance , see it at the bottom , and immediately to our right is the ticket office .
you wont need that because youve got your group booking but just past it are the toilets always good to know where they are .
in front of us is the car park , as you can see , and to the left , by the entry gate is the gift shop .
thats where you can get copies of guide , like this one here .
an examination of the functioning of the senses in cetaceans , the group of mammals comprising whales , dolphins and porpoises .
some of the senses that we and other terrestrial mammals take for granted are either reduced or absent in cetaceans or fail to function well in water .
for example , it appears from their brain structure that toothed species are unable to smell .
baleen species , on the other hand , appear to have some related brain structures but it is not known whether these are functional .
it has been speculated that , as the blowholes evolved and migrated to the top of the head , the neural pathways serving sense of smell may have been nearly all sacrificed .
from a number of recent studies , it has become clear that blind people can appreciate the use of outlines and perspectives to describe the arrangement of objects and other surfaces in space .
but pictures are more than literal representations .
this fact was drawn to my attention dramatically when a blind woman in one of my investigations decided on her own initiative to draw a wheel as it was spinning .
to show this motion , she traced a curve inside the circle .
i was taken aback .
lines of motion , such as the one she used , are a very recent invention in the history of illustration .
indeed , as art scholar david kunzle notes , wilhelm busch , a trend setting nineteenth century cartoonist , used virtually no motion lines in his popular figures until about 1877 .
when i asked several other blind study subjects to draw a spinning wheel , one particularly clever rendition appeared repeatedly .
several subjects showed the wheels spokes as curved lines .
when asked about these curves , they all described them as metaphorical ways of suggesting motion .
majority rule would argue that this device somehow indicated motion very well .
but was it a better indicator than , say , broken or wavy lines or any other kind of line , for that matter ?
the answer was not clear .
so i decided to test whether various lines of motion were apt ways of showing movement or if they were merely idiosyncratic marks .
moreover , i wanted to discover whether there were differences in how the blind and the sighted interpreted lines of motion .
to search out these answers , i created raised line drawings of five different wheels , depicting spokes with lines that curved , bent , waved , dashed and extended beyond the perimeter of the wheel .
i then asked eighteen blind volunteers to feel the wheels and assign one of the following motions to each wheel .
wobbling , spinning fast , spinning steadily , jerking or braking .
my control group consisted of eighteen sighted undergraduates from the university of toronto .
all but one of the blind subjects assigned distinctive motions to each wheel .
most guessed that the curved spokes indicated that the wheel was spinning steadily .
the wavy spokes , they thought , suggested that the wheel was wobbling .
and the bent spokes were taken as a sign that the wheel was jerking .
subjects assumed that spokes extending beyond the wheels perimeter signified that the wheel had its brakes on and that dashed spokes indicated the wheel was spinning quickly .
in addition , the favoured description for the sighted was the favoured description for the blind in every instance .
what is more , the consensus among the sighted was barely higher than that among the blind .
because motion devices are unfamiliar to the blind , the task i gave them involved some problem solving .
evidently , however , the blind not only figured out meanings for each line of motion , but as a group they generally came up with the same meaning at least as frequently as did sighted subjects .
we have found that the blind understand other kinds of visual metaphors as well .
one blind woman drew a picture of a child inside a heart choosing that symbol , she said , to show that love surrounded the child .
with chang hong liu , a doctoral student from china , i have begun exploring how well blind people understand the symbolism behind shapes such as hearts that do not directly represent their meaning .
we gave a list of twenty pairs of words to sighted subjects and asked them to pick from each pair the term that best related to a circle and the term that best related to a square .
for example , we asked .
what goes with soft ?
a circle or a square ?
which shape goes with hard ?
all our subjects deemed the circle soft and the square hard .
a full 94 percent ascribed happy to the circle , instead of sad .
but other pairs revealed less agreement .
79 percent matched fast to slow and weak to strong , respectively .
and only 51 percent linked deep to circle and shallow to square .
when we tested four totally blind volunteers using the same list , we found that their choices closely resembled those made by the sighted subjects .
one man , who had been blind since birth , scored extremely well .
he made only one match differing from the consensus , assigning far to square and near to circle .
in fact , only a small majority of sighted subjects 53 had paired far and near to the opposite partners .
thus , we concluded that the blind interpret abstract shapes as sighted people do .
i have been asked today to talk to you about the urban landscape .
there are two major areas that i will focus on in my talk .
how vegetation can have a significant effect on urban climate , and how we can better plan our cities using trees to provide a more comfortable environment for us to live in .
trees can have a significant impact on our cities .
as a whole , they can make a city , a bit less windy or a bit more windy , if thats what you want .
they can make it a bit cooler if its a hot summer day in an australian city , or they can make it a bit more humid if its a dry inland city .
many minority languages are on the danger list .
in the native american navajo nation , which sprawls across four states in the american south west , the native language is dying .
most of its speakers are middle aged or elderly although many students take classes in navajo , the schools are run in english .
street signs , supermarket goods and even their own newspaper are all in english .
not surprisingly , linguists doubt that any native speakers of navajo will remain in a hundred years time .
so the counselling services we offer deal with any problems arising from your studies , or in your life outside the university .
lets take academic counselling .
if youre confused about subjects or how to combine them in your degree , then we can advise you and discuss the career you are aiming for , so that you can see it all in context .
we can also chase up your tutor if youre not getting proper feedback on how you are getting on in your subject .
besides help with academic problems , you may also need personal counselling .
if you think youre already under stress , well , just wait till classes begin next week .
youll have to start adjusting to teaching and learning methods that may be unfamiliar to you , as well as the mounting pressure as the deadline for that first assignment creeps up on you .
and of course , you have to cope with all this without your usual social network you know , the social contacts , family and friends you could normally rely on for help .
all of this causes anxiety .
studying overseas can trigger a personal crisis you may have left a lot of what you might call unfinished business back in your own country , or you may have interrupted personal relationships or even sometimes have broken them off to come overseas , and so the student often feels lonely , unhappy , unmotivated and unable to concentrate on studying .
or there may be other things bothering you .
our resident chaplain can offer you spiritual guidance if thats what you want , or we can put you in touch with community groups that can provide you with social contacts and friendship .
what about exam stress ?
it affects nearly everyone to some extent , but especially overseas students like yourselves .
there may be a huge amount of family pressure on you to succeed , and if you fail a subject or drop out of a course because its too difficult then your self esteem can suffer .
but its not the end of the world if you dont pass an exam i had to resit first year anthropology , so i can certainly offer you a sympathetic ear !
anyway , exam failure can lead to worrying changes in the way you normally behave .
you may also be off your food , or you may have dietary problems because the local food is not to your liking and upsets you , and this can affect your health and studies .
glenda roberts is our dietician in the health service and we can put you on to her .
and we all have money problems , dont we ?
but remember , full time students can get a low interest loan of up to six hundred dollars to buy books and for similar study related expenses .
thats right , and you can get double that amount if you cant afford an item of equipment you need for your course a musical instrument , for example .
and it doesnt stop there .
when you move into a flat , starting up expenses , including furniture for it , can be covered by a loan through the welfare service see jill freeman for details .
can we help you ?
well , last academic year , in spite of staff cuts , we counselled two hundred and forty international students for a total of twenty six hundred hours counselling , and , finally we won all but just one of the twelve appeals that we launched on behalf of students .
not too bad for an understaffed service , dont you think ?
thats all from me .
the first students to study alternative medicine at university level in australia began their four year , full time course at the university of technology , sydney , in early 1994 .
their course covered , among other therapies , acupuncture .
the theory they learnt is based on the traditional chinese explanation of this ancient healing art .
that it can regulate the flow of qi or energy through pathways in the body .
this course reflects how far some alternative therapies have come in their struggle for acceptance by the medical establishment .
australia has been unusual in the western world in having a very conservative attitude to natural or alternative therapies , according to dr paul laver , a lecturer in public health at the university of sydney .
weve had a tradition of doctors being fairly powerful and i guess they are pretty loath to allow any pretenders to their position to come into it .
in many other industrialized countries , orthodox and alternative medicines have worked hand in glove for years .
in europe , only orthodox doctors can prescribe herbal medicine .
in germany , plant remedies account for 10 of the national turnover of pharmaceuticals .
americans made more visits to alternative therapist than to orthodox doctors in 1990 , and each year they spend about us 12 billion on the therapies that have not been scientifically tested .
disenchantment with orthodox medicine has seen the popularity of alternative therapies in australia climb steadily during the past 20 years .
in a 1983 national health survey , 1,9 of people said they had contacted a chiropractor , naturopath , osteopath , acupuncturist or herbalist in the two weeks prior to the survey .
by 1990 , this figure had risen to 2,6 of the population .
the 550,000 consultations with alternative therapists reported in the 1990 survey represented about an eighth of the total number of consultations with medically qualified personnel covered by the survey , according to dr laver and colleagues writing in the australian journal of public health in 1993 .
a better educated and less accepting public has become disillusion with the experts in general and increasingly skeptical about science and empirically based knowledge , they said .
the high standing of professionals , including doctors , has been eroded as a consequence .
rather than resisting or criticizing this trend , increasing numbers of australian doctors , particularly younger ones , are forming group practices with alternative therapists or taking courses themselves , particularly in acupuncture and herbalism .
part of the incentive was financial , dr laver said .
the bottom line is that most general practitioners are business people .
if they see potential clientele going elsewhere , they might want to be able to offer a similar service .
in 1993 , dr laver and his colleagues published a survey of 289 sydney people who attended eight alternative therapists practices in sydney .
these practices offered a wide range of alternative therapies from 25 therapists .
those surveyed had experience chronic illnesses , for which orthodox medicine had been able to provide little relief .
they commented that they liked the holistic approach of their alternative therapists and the friendly , concerned and detailed attention they had received .
the cold , impersonal manner of orthodox doctors featured in the survey .
an increasing exodus from their clinics , coupled with this and a number of other relevant surveys carried out in australia , all pointing to orthodox doctors inadequacies , have led mainstream doctors themselves to begin to admit they could learn from the personal style of alternative therapists .
dr patrick store , president of the royal college of general practitioners , concurs that orthodox doctors could learn a lot about beside manner and advising patients on preventative health from alternative therapists .
according to the australian journal of public health , 18 of patients visiting alternative therapists do so because they suffer from musculo skeletal complaints .
12 percent from digestive problems , which is only 1 more than those suffering from emotional problems .
those suffering from respiratory complaints represent 7 of their patients , and candida sufferers represent an equal percentage .
headache sufferers and those complaining of general ill health represent 6 and 5 of patients respectively , and a further 4 see therapists for general health maintenance .
the survey suggested that complementary medicine is probably a better term than alternative medicine .
alternative medicine appears to be an adjunct , sought in times of disenchantment when conventional medicine seems not to offer the answer .
a playing is a serious business .
children engrossed in a make believe world , fox cubs play fighting or kittens teasing a ball of string arent just having fun .
play may look like a carefree and exuberant way to pass the time before the hard work of adulthood comes along , but theres much more to it than that .
for a start , play can even cost animals their lives .
eighty percent of deaths among juvenile fur seals occur because playing pups fail to spot predators approaching .
so far , in these lectures , weve been looking at crimes like robbery and murder both from a historical viewpoint and also in contemporary society and weve seen that the preoccupation in western society with crime and with lawlessness is part of a long and continuous tradition , rather than something which is new and unique to modern society .
but over the past seventy years or so , there has been a massive increase in one type of crime , which is whats known as corporate crime .
corporate crime is crime which , as the name suggests , is connected with companies , with business organisations .
it includes illegal acts of either individuals or a group within the company , but what is important is that these acts are normally in accordance with the goals of the company they are for the good of the company rather than the individual .
its been defined as , quote , crime which is committed for the corporate organisation the company not against it , unquote .
so crimes like theft by employees things like embezzlement or fraud against ones actual employer are excluded according to this definition .
the employees may be involved but they are acting in the first place for the company they may not even realise they are committing a crime or they may realise but they feel its excusable because its policy , or because otherwise they may lose their jobs .
so here , really , we are talking about the links between power and crime .
it has been relatively ignored by the mass media for example , it tends to be under reported in comparison with conventional crime in news broadcasts , and in crime serials and films and so on they very rarely deal with corporate crime .
and it also tends to be ignored in academic circles theres been far more research on conventional crime and far more data is available .
there are several reasons for this lack of interest in corporate crime , compared with other types of crime .
its often very complex , whereas with conventional crime its usually possible to follow whats going on without specialist knowledge .
as well as this , whereas conventional crime usually has a lot of human interest , corporate crime often has much less .
the third reason , and possibly the most significant one , is that very often the victims are unaware they think their misfortune is an accident or that its the fault of no one in particular .
they are unaware that theyve been victims of a crime .
so , when we look at the effects of corporate crime we may find its very difficult to assess the costs .
but these costs can be very considerable in both their economic and social aspects .
lets look at the economic costs first .
for example , if a company is producing fruit juice and it dilutes its product so that its just a little below the concentration it should be , many millions of people may be paying a small amount extra for their carton of orange juice .
now small amounts like this may seem insignificant for individual customers too small to worry about but for the company this deception might result in massive illegal profit .
however , all studies of corporate crime agree that the individuals are in fact deprived of far more money by such crime than they are by conventional crime like robbery and theft .
in addition to this , we have to consider the social costs of corporate crime and these are again very difficult to assess , but they are considerable .
they are important because they can undermine the faith of the public in the business world and also , more importantly , because the main group of people they affect are , in fact , not the richer sections of society but the poorer so here companies are robbing the poor to benefit the rich .
there are two more points to do with corporate crime that id like to illustrate with reference to a specific event which occurred several years ago .
this was an explosion of a large oil tanker which caused the loss of more than fifty lives of the crew .
it was an explosion which never should have happened and a subsequent inquiry laid the blame not on anyone who had actually been on the tanker at the time , but on the owners of the tanker .
they had deliberately decided not to carry out necessary repair work on the tanker as it was due to be sold , and it was this lack of repair work which was directly responsible for the explosion .
now this illustrates two points to do with corporate crime .
first of all , that it does not have to be intentional .
the owners of the tanker certainly did not intend it to explode .
but very serious consequences can result from people or organisations not considering the possible results of their actions seriously enough .
the main crime here was indifference to the human results rather than actual intention to harm anyone , but that didnt make the results any less tragic .
and this leads me to my second point that corporate crime can have very severe consequences .
its not just a matter of companies making bigger profits than they should do , but of events which may affect the lives of innocent people , and yet very often companies , because they say they didnt intend to harm anyone , can avoid taking responsibility for the results of their actions .
and that has been a very dangerous loophole in the law .
i am from a large , poor family and for many years we have done without breakfast .
ever since i joined the street kids international program i have been able to buy my family sugar and buns for breakfast .
i have also bought myself decent second hand clothes and shoes .
weve had business experience .
now im confident to expand what weve been doing .
ive learnt cash management , and the way of keeping money so we save for re investment .
now business is a part of our lives .
as well , we didnt know each other before now weve made new friends fan kaoma .
participants in the youth skills enterprise initiative program , zambia .
although small scale business training and credit programs have become more common throughout the world , relatively little attention has been paid to the need to direct such opportunities to young people .
even less attention has been paid to children living on the street or in difficult circumstances .
over the past nine years , street kids international ski has been working with partner organisations in africa , latin america and india to support the economic lives of street children .
the purpose of this paper is to share some of the lessons ski and our partners have learned .
typically , children do not end up on the streets due to a single cause , but to a combination of factors .
a dearth of adequately funded schools , the demand for income at home , family breakdown and violence .
the street may be attractive to children as a place to find adventurous play and money .
however , it is also a place where some children are exposed , with little or no protection , to exploitative employment , urban crime , and abuse .
children who work on the streets are generally involved in unskilled , labour intensive tasks which require long hours , such as shining shoes , carrying goods , guarding or washing cars , and informal trading .
some may also earn income through begging , or through theft and other illegal activities .
at the same time , there are street children who take pride in supporting themselves and their families and who often enjoy their work .
many children may se entrepreneurship because it allows them a degree of independence , is less exploitative than many forms of paid employment , and is flexible enough to allow them to participate in other activities such as education and domestic tasks .
street business partnerships ski has worked with partner organisations in latin america , africa and india to develop innovative opportunities for street children to earn income .
the ski bicycle courier service first started in the sudan .
participants in this enterprise were supplied with bicycles , which they used to deliver parcels and messages , and which they were required to pay for gradually from their wages .
a similar program was taken up in bangalore , india .
another successful project , the shoe shine collective , was a partnership program with the ywca in the dominican republic .
in this project , participants were lent money to purchase shoe shine boxes .
they were also given a safe place to store their equipment , and facilities for individual savings plans .
the youth skills enterprise initiative in zambia is a joint program with the red cross society and the ywca .
street youths are supported to start their own small business through business training , life skills training and access to credit .
the following lessons have emerged from the programs that ski .
and partner organisations have created .
being an entrepreneur is not for everyone , nor for every street child .
ideally , potential participants will have been involved in the organisations programs for at least six months , and trust and relationship building will have already been established .
the involvement of the participants has been essential to the development of relevant programs .
when children have had a major role in determining procedures , they are more likely to abide by and enforce them .
it is critical for all loans to be linked to training programs that include the development of basic business and life skills .
there are tremendous advantages to involving parents or guardians in the program , where such relationships exist .
home visits allow staff the opportunity to know where the participants live , and to understand more about each individuals situation .
small loans are provided initially for purchasing fixed assets such as bicycles , shoe shine kits and basic building materials for a market stall .
as the entrepreneurs gain experience , the enterprises can be gradually expanded and consideration can be given to increasing loan amounts .
the loan amounts in ski programs have generally ranged from us 30 100 .
all ski programs have charged interest on the loans , primarily to get the entrepreneurs used to the concept of paying interest on borrowed money .
generally the rates have been modest lower than bank rates .
there is a need to recognise the importance of access to credit for impoverished young people seeking to fulfil economic needs .
the provision of small loans to support the entrepreneurial dreams and ambitions of youth can be an effective means to help them change their lives .
however , we believe that credit must be extended in association with other types of support that help participants develop critical life skills as well as productive businesses .
this year , the summer festival is the biggest weve ever seen , so there should be something for everybody .
this is the third year theyve run it and the timings slightly different .
for the last couple of years its been around the fifth to seventeenth , but this year they wanted to allow everyone enough time to recover from the first of january celebrations and theyve put it at the end of the month .
the programme has sensational theatre , dance and also a large number of art exhibitions , but the thing the festival is most famous for is its great street music .
for todays report though , geoffrey , im looking at some of the theatrical events that you might like to see .
in particular , at this years theme circuses .
im going to tell you about two circus performances , but there are plenty of others in the programme .
ive chosen these because they represent distinct movements within circus performance .
the first is the circus romano from italy .
as this is a travelling circus , it follows a long tradition by performing in a marquee which is really like a canvas portable building , usually put up in a green space or car park , rather than in a theatre or stadium .
in spite of this , circus romano isnt at all like the traditional circuses i grew up with .
there are no animals just very talented clowning and acrobatic routines .
the show has a lot of very funny moments , especially at the beginning , but the best part is the music and lighting .
they are magical .
at forty five dollars its very expensive anyway its really for adult tastes .
in fact , much of it would be wasted on children so i suggest you leave them at home .
the second circus performance is circus electrica at the studio theatre .
the purists are suggesting that this isnt a circus at all .
its a showcase for skills in dance and magic , rather than the usual ones you expect in a circus .
with only six performers its a small production , which suits the venue well the studio only seats about two hundred people .
for my money its the aerial displays which are outstanding as well as the magical tricks features which are missing from circus romano .
an interesting feature of the show is that the performers are so young the youngest is only fourteen .
but its still well worth seeing .
a good one for the whole family .
and finally , as its summer , you may wish to see some of the festival performances that are being presented outdoors .
like the famous mekong water puppet troupe , performing in the city gardens this week .
now , water puppetry is amazing !
its large puppets on long sticks , controlled by puppeteers standing waist deep in the lake .
the puppets do comedy routines and there is some terrific formation dancing .
this is a fantastic show and the best moment comes at the end seeing the puppeteers .
when the troupe walks up out of the water , you get this amazing feeling .
its really hard to believe that what youve been watching is lifeless wood and cloth .
as an adult , i had a great time , but i did note that other older people in the audience werent quite as taken with it as i was .
its a must for young children though , and thats the audience its really aimed at .
well , thats all ive time for today , but ill be back next week with more news of whats worth seeing and that its best to miss .
when mount pinatubo suddenly erupted on 9 june 1991 , the power of volcanoes past and present again hit the headlines .
volcanoes are the ultimate earth moving machinery .
a violent eruption can blow the top few kilometres off a mountain , scatter fine ash practically all over the globe and hurl rock fragments into the stratosphere to darken the skies a continent away .
but the classic eruption cone shaped mountain , big bang , mushroom cloud and surges of molten lava is only a tiny part of a global story .
vulcanism , the name given to volcanic processes , really has shaped the world .
eruptions have rifted continents , raised mountain chains , constructed islands and shaped the topography of the earth .
the entire ocean floor has a basement of volcanic basalt .
volcanoes have not only made the continents , they are also thought to have made the worlds first stable atmosphere and provided all the water for the oceans , rivers and ice caps .
there are now about 600 active volcanoes .
every year they add two or three cubic kilometres of rock to the continents .
imagine a similar number of volcanoes smoking away for the last 3,500 million years .
that is enough rock to explain the continental crust .
what comes out of volcanic craters is mostly gas .
more than 90 of this gas is water vapour from the deep earth .
enough to explain , over 3,500 million years , the water in the oceans .
the rest of the gas is nitrogen , carbon dioxide , sulphur dioxide , methane , ammonia and hydrogen .
the quantity of these gases , again multiplied over 3,500 million years , is enough to explain the mass of the worlds atmosphere .
we are alive because volcanoes provided the soil , air and water we need .
geologists consider the earth as having a molten core , surrounded by a semi molten mantle and a brittle , outer skin .
it helps to think of a soft boiled egg with a runny yolk , a firm but squishy white and a hard shell .
if the shell is even slightly cracked during boiling , the white material bubbles out and sets like a tiny mountain chain over the crack like an archipelago of volcanic islands such as the hawaiian islands .
but the earth is so much bigger and the mantle below is so much hotter .
even though the mantle rocks are kept solid by overlying pressure , they can still slowly flow like thick treacle .
the flow , thought to be in the form of convection currents , is powerful enough to fracture the eggshell of the crust into plates , and keep them bumping and grinding against each other , or even overlapping , at the rate of a few centimetres a year .
these fracture zones , where the collisions occur , are where earthquakes happen .
and , very often , volcanoes .
these zones are lines of weakness , or hot spots .
every eruption is different , but put at its simplest , where there are weaknesses , rocks deep in the mantle , heated to 1,350 c , will start to expand and rise .
as they do so , the pressure drops , and they expand and become liquid and rise more swiftly .
sometimes it is slow .
vast bubbles of magma molten rock from the mantle inch towards the surface , cooling slowly , to snow through as granite extrusions as on skye , or the great whin sill , the lava dyke squeezed out like toothpaste that carries part of hadrians wall in northern england .
sometimes as in northern ireland , wales and the karoo in south africa the magma rose faster , and then flowed out horizontally on to the surface in vast thick sheets .
in the deccan plateau in western india , there are more than two million cubic kilometres of lava , some of it 2,400 metres thick , formed over 500,000 years of slurping eruption .
sometimes the magma moves very swiftly indeed .
it does not have time to cool as it surges upwards .
the gases trapped inside the boiling rock expand suddenly , the lava glows with heat , it begins to froth , and it explodes with tremendous force .
then the slightly cooler lava following it begins to flow over the lip of the crater .
it happens on mars , it happened on the moon , it even happens on some of the moons of jupiter and uranus .
by studying the evidence , vulcanologists can read the force of the great blasts of the past .
is the pumice light and full of holes ?
the explosion was tremendous .
are the rocks heavy , with huge crystalline basalt shapes , like the giants causeway in northern ireland ?
it was a slow , gentle eruption .
the biggest eruptions are deep on the mid ocean floor , where new lava is forcing the continents apart and widening the atlantic by perhaps five centimetres a year .
look at maps of volcanoes , earthquakes and island chains like the philippines and japan , and you can see the rough outlines of what are called tectonic plates the plates which make up the earths crust and mantle .
the most dramatic of these is the pacific ring of fire where there have been the most violent explosions mount pinatubo near manila , mount st helens in the rockies and el chichon in mexico about a decade ago , not to mention world shaking blasts like krakatoa in the sunda straits in 1883 .
but volcanoes are not very predictable .
that is because geological time is not like human time .
during quiet periods , volcanoes cap themselves with their own lava by forming a powerful cone from the molten rocks slopping over the rim of the crater .
later the lava cools slowly into a huge , hard , stable plug which blocks any further eruption until the pressure below becomes irresistible .
in the case of mount pinatubo , this took 600 years .
then , sometimes , with only a small warning , the mountain blows its top .
it did this at mont pelee in martinique at 7,49 am on 8 may , 1902 .
of a town of 28000 , only two people survived .
in 1815 , a sudden blast removed the top 1,280 metres of mount tambora in indonesia .
many procedures are available for obtaining data about a language .
they range from a carefully planned , intensive field investigation in a foreign country to a casual introspection about ones mother tongue carried out in an armchair at home .
in all cases , someone has to act as a source of language data .
an informant informants are ideally native speakers of a language , who provide utterances for analysis and other kinds of information about the language eg translations , comments about correctness , or judgements on usage .
often , when studying their mother tongue , linguists act as their own informants , judging the ambiguity , acceptability , or other properties of utterances against their own intuitions .
we are very grateful that the committee has agreed that a representative for the students union can present students suggestions about the design for the proposed new union building .
we appreciate that some of our ideas may not be feasible in the circumstances , but we do feel that it is important that the ultimate beneficiaries of the facilities should have some say in its design .
if i could start by briefly explaining what steps were taken to find out student opinion and how we have arrived at conclusions .
firstly , a meeting was held in the current union for our su committee to explain the options .
then we invited all students to submit written suggestions for the design , placing cards in a suggestion box .
hi tony , thanks ever so much for coming .
you know weve been asked to organize something for john farewell ?
yeah , sure , its about time we started working out details .
we dont want to be late to double the work .
right , do you want me to take notes ?
thatd be great , thanks .
limits to human sporting performance are not yet in sight .
since the early years of the twentieth century , when the international athletic federation began keeping records , there has been a steady improvement in how fast athletes run , how high they jump and how far they are bale to hurl massive objects , themselves included , through space .
for the so called power events that require a relatively brief , explosive release of energy , like the 100 metre sprint and the long jump times and distances have improved ten to twenty percent .
in the endurance events the results have been more dramatic .
at the 1908 olympics , john hayes of the us team ran to marathon in a time .
in 1999 , moroccos khalid khannouchi set a new world record , almost thirty percent faster .
no one theory can explain improvements in performance , but the most important factor has been genetics .
the athlete must choose his parents carefully , says jesus dapena , a sports scientist at indiana university , invoking an oftcited adage .
over the past century , the composition of the human gene pool has not changed appreciably , but with increasing global participation in athletics and greater rewards to tempt athletes it is more likely that individuals possessing the unique complement of genes for athletic performance can be identified early .
was there someone like sprinter michael johnson in the 1920s ?
im sure there was , but his talent was probably never realized .
identifying genetically talented individuals is only the first step .
michael yessis , an emeritus professor of sports science at california state university at fullerton , maintains that genetics only determines about one third of what an athlete can do .
but with the right training we can go much further with that one third than weve been going .
yesis believes that us runners , despite their impressive achievements , are running on their genetics .
by applying more scientific methods , they are going to go much faster .
these methods include strength training that duplicates what they are doing in their running events as well as plyometrics , a technique pioneered in the former soviet union .
whereas most exercises are designed to build up strength or endurance , plyometrics focuses on increasing power the rate at which an athlete can expend energy .
when a sprinter runs , yesis explains , her foot stays in contact with the ground for just under a tenth of a second , half of which is devoted to landing and the other half to pushing off .
plyometric exercises help athletes make the best use of this brief interval .
nutrition is another area that sports trainers have failed to address adequately .
many athletes are not getting the best nutrition , even through supplements .
each activity has its own nutritional needs .
few coaches , for instance , understand how deficiencies in trace minerals can lead to injuries .
focused training will also play a role in enabling records to be broken .
if we applied the russian training model to some of the outstanding runners we have in this country , they would be breaking records left and right .
however , he will not predict by how much .
exactly what the limits are its hard to say , but there will be increases even if only by hundredths of a second , as long as our training continues to improve .
one of the most important new methodologies is biomechanics , the study of the body in motion .
a biomechanic films an athlete in action and then digitizes her performance , recording the motion of every joint and limb in three dimensions .
by applying newtons law to these motions , we can say that this athletes run is not fast enough .
that this one is not using his arms strongly enough during take off , says dapena , who uses these methods to help high jumpers .
however , to date , biomechanics has made only a small difference to athletic performance .
revolutionary ideas still come from the athletes themselves .
for example , during the 1968 olympics in mexico city , a relatively unknown high jumper named dick fosbury won the gold by going over the bar backwards , in complete contradiction of all the received high jumping wisdom , a move instantly dubbed the fosbury flop .
fosbury himself did not know what he was doing .
that understanding took the later analysis of biomechanics specialists .
who put their minds to comprehending something that was too complex and unorthodox ever to have been invented through their own mathematical simulations .
fosbury also required another element that lies behind many improvements in athletic performance .
an innovation in athletic equipment .
in fosburys case , it was the cushions that jumpers land on .
traditionally , high jumpers would land in pits filled with sawdust .
but by fosburys time , sawdust pits had been replaced by soft foam cushions , ideal for flopping .
in the end , most people who examine human performance are humbled by the resourcefulness of athletes and the powers of the human body .
once you study athletics , you learn that its a vexingly complex issue .
a sports psychologist at indiana university .
core performance is not a simple or mundane thing of higher , faster , longer .
so many variables enter into the equation , and our understanding in many cases is fundamental .
we are got a long way to go .
for the foreseeable future , records will be made to be broken .
thank you for calling the free travelite travel agency information line .
you will not be charge for this call .
in order to deal with all calls effectively , we offer you a number of options .
please listen carefully and press your required number at the appropriate time , or dial a new number .
if you want to hear about special offers , please press one .
if you want to hear our latest price lists , please press two .
archaeology is partly the discovery of the treasures of the past , partly the careful work of the scientific analyst , partly the exercise of the creative imagination .
it is toiling in the sun on an excavation in the middle east , it is working with living inuit in the snows of alaska , and it is investigating the sewers of roman britain .
but it is also the painstaking task of interpretation , so that we come to understand what these things mean for the human story .
and it is the conservation of the worlds cultural heritage against looting and careless harm .
then , archaeology is both a physical activity out in the field .
and an intellectual pursuit in the study or laboratory .
the problem of how health care resources should be allocated or apportioned , so that they are distributed in both , the most just and most efficient way , is not a new one .
every health system in an economically developed society is faced with the need to decide either formally or informally what proportion of the communitys total resources should be spent on health care .
how resources are to be apportioned .
what diseases and disabilities and which forms of treatment are to be given priority .
which members of the community are to be given special consideration in respect of their health needs .
and which forms of treatment are the most cost effective .
what is new is that , from the 1950s onwards , there have been certain general changes in outlook about the finitude of resources as a whole and of health care resources in particular , as well as more specific changes regarding the clientele of health care resources and the cost to the community of those resources .
thus , in the 1950s and 1960s , there emerged an awareness in western societies that resources for the provision of fossil fuel energy were finite and exhaustible and that the capacity of nature or the environment to sustain economic development and population was also finite .
in other words , we became aware of the obvious fact that there were limits to growth .
today we are going to look at one of my favourite fish the shark .
as you know , sharks have a reputation for being very dangerous creatures capable of injuring or killing humans , and id like to talk about sharks in australia .
sharks are rather large fish , often growing to over ten metres and the longest sharks caught in australia have reached sixteen metres .
sharks vary in weight with size and breed , of course , but the heaviest shark caught in australia was a white pointer that weighed seven hundred and ninety five kilograms quite a size !
sharks have a different structure to most fish .
instead of a skeleton made of bone , they have a tough elastic skeleton of cartilage .
for the century before johnsons dictionary was published in 1775 , there had been concern about the state of the english language .
there was no standard way of speaking or writing and no agreement as to the best way of bringing some order to the chaos of english spelling .
dr johnson provided the solution .
there had , of course , been dictionaries in the past , the first of these being a little book of some 120 pages , compiled by a certain robert cawdray , published in 1604 under the title a table alphabeticall of hard usual english words .
like the various dictionaries that came after it during the seventeenth century , cawdrays tended to concentrate on scholarly words .
one function of the dictionary was to enable its student to convey an impression of fine learning .
beyond the practical need to make order out of chaos , the rise of dictionaries is associated with the rise of the english middle class , who were anxious to define and circumscribe the various worlds to conquer lexical as well as social and commercial .
it is highly appropriate that dr samuel johnson , the very model of an eighteenth century literary man , as famous in his own time as in ours , should have published his dictionary at the very beginning of the heyday of the middle class .
johnson was a poet and critic who raised common sense to the heights of genius .
his approach to the problems that had worried writers throughout the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries was intensely practical .
up until his time , the task of producing a dictionary on such a large scale had seemed impossible without the establishment of an academy to make decisions about right and wrong usage .
johnson decided he did not need an academy to settle arguments about language .
he would write a dictionary himself .
and he would do it single handed .
johnson signed the contract for the dictionary with the bookseller robert dosley at a breakfast held at the golden anchor inn near holborn bar on 18 june 1764 .
he was to be paid 1,575 in instalments , and from this he took money to rent 17 gough square , in which he set up his dictionary workshop .
james boswell , his biographer described the garret where johnson worked as fitted up like a counting house with a long desk running down the middle at which the copying clerks would work standing up .
johnson himself was stationed on a rickety chair at an old crazy deal table surrounded by a chaos of borrowed books .
he was also helped by six assistants , two of whom died whilst the dictionary was still in preparation .
the work was immense .
filing about eighty large notebooks and without a library to hand .
johnson wrote the definitions of over 40,000 words , and illustrated their many meanings with some 114,000 quotations drawn from english writing on every subject , from the elizabethans to his own time .
he did not expel to achieve complete originality .
working to a deadline , he had to draw on the best of all previous dictionaries , and to make his work one of heroic synthesis .
in fact , it was very much more .
unlike his predecessors , johnson treated english very practically , as a living language , with many different shades of meaning .
he adopted his definitions on the principle of english common law according to precedent .
after its publication , his dictionary was not seriously rivalled for over a century .
after many vicissitudes the dictionary was finally published on 15 april 1775 .
it was instantly recognised as a landmark throughout europe .
this very noble work .
wrote the leading italian lexicographer , will be a perpetual monument of fame to the author , an honour to his own country in particular , and a general benefit to the republic of letters throughout europe .
the fact that johnson had taken on the academies of europe and matched them everyone knew that forty french academics had taken forty years to produce the first french national dictionary was cause for much english celebration .
johnson had worked for nine years , with little assistance of the learned , and without any patronage of the great .
not in the soft obscurities of retirement , or under the shelter of academic bowers , but amidst inconvenience and distraction , in sickness and in sorrow .
for all its faults and eccentricities his two volume work is a masterpiece and a landmark , in his own words , setting the orthography , displaying the analogy , regulating the structures , and ascertaining the significations of english words .
it is the cornerstone of standard english , an achievement which , in james boswells words , conferred stability on the language of his country .
the dictionary , together with his other writing , made johnson famous and so well esteemed that his friends were able to prevail upon king george iii to offer him a pension .
from then on , he was to become the johnson of folklore .
hello and welcome to todays buyer beware programme , where we give you some tips on how to spend your money wisely .
now , in todays show we are looking at beds for children and babies .
lets start by looking at baby cots , thats for children of up three years old .
we tested three different cots all in the buget price range and , as usual , we will feature the good points , the problems and our verdict .
the first cot we looked at was by baby safe and it had several good points to recommend it .
a few years ago , in one of the most fascinating and disturbing experiments in behavioural psychology , stanley milgram of yale university tested 40 subjects from all walks of life for their willingness to obey instructions given by a leader in a situation in which the subjects might feel a personal distaste for the actions they were called upon to perform .
specifically , milgram told each volunteer teacher subject that the experiment was in the noble cause of education , and was designed to test whether or not punishing pupils for their mistakes would have a positive effect on the pupils ability to learn .
milgrams experimental set up involved placing the teacher subject before a panel of thirty switches with labels ranging from 15 volts of electricity slight shock to 450 volts danger severe shock in steps of 15 volts each .
the teacher subject was told that whenever the pupil gave the wrong answer to a question , a shock was to be administered , beginning at the lowest level and increasing in severity with each successive wrong answer .
the supposed pupil was in reality an actor hired by milgram to simulate receiving the shocks by emitting a spectrum of groans , screams and writhings together with an assortment of statements and expletives denouncing both the experiment and the experimenter .
for many environmentalists , the world seems to be getting worse .
they have developed a hit list of our main fears .
that natural resources are running out .
that the population is ever growing , leaving less and less to eat .
that species are becoming extinct in vast numbers .
the planets air and water are becoming ever more polluted .
but a quick look at the facts shows a different picture .
first , energy and other natural resources have become more abundant , not less so since the book the limits to growth was published in 1972 by a group of scientists .
second , more food is now produced per head of the worlds population than at any time in history .
so weve been looking at the attitudes of various social and cultural groups towards the management of their personal finances how important they feel it is to save money , and what they save their money for .
one aspect that we havent yet considered is gender .
so if we consider gender issues we are basically asking whether men and women have different attitudes towards saving money , and whether they save money for different things .
back in 1928 the british writer george bernard shaw wrote in his intelligent womens guide to socialism and capitalism that a man is supposed to understand politics , economics and finance and is therefore unwilling to accept essential instruction .
he also said , a woman having fewer pretentions , is far more willing to learn .
north college library .
how can i help you ?
i was wondering if it was possible to join the library .
are you a student at north college ?
im not , but someone told me it was possible to join even if i wasnt .
are you over 18 ?
thats our minimum joining age .
in 1907 , leo hendrick baekeland , a belgian scientist working in new york , discovered and patented a revolutionary new synthetic material .
his invention , which he named bakelite , was of enormous technological importance , and effectively launched the modern plastics industry .
the term plastic comes from the greek plassein , meaning to mould .
some plastics are derived from natural sources , some are semi synthetic the result of chemical action on a natural substance , and some are entirely synthetic , that is , chemically engineered from the constituents of coal or oil .
some are thermoplastic , which means that , like candlewax , they melt when heated and can then be reshaped , others are thermosetting .
like eggs , they can not revert to their original viscous state , and their shape is thus fixed for ever bakelite had the distinction of being the first totally synthetic thermosetting plastic .
the history of todays plastics begins with the discovery of a series of semi synthetic thermoplastic materials in the mid nineteenth century .
the impetus behind the development of these early plastics was generated by a number of factors immense technological progress in the domain of chemistry , coupled with wider cultural changes , and the pragmatic need to find acceptable substitutes for dwindling supplies of luxury materials such as tortoiseshell and ivory .
baekelands interest in plastics began in 1885 when , as a young chemistry student in belgium , he embarked on research into phenolic resins , the group of sticky substances produced when phenol carbolic acid combines with an aldehyde a volatile fluid similar to alcohol .
however , he soon abandoned the subject only returning to it some years later .
by 1905 he was a wealthy new yorker , having recently made his fortune with the invention of a new photographic paper .
while baekeland had been busily amassing dollars , some advances had been made in the development of plastics .
the years 1899 and 1900 had seen the patenting of the first semi synthetic thermosetting material that could be manufactured on an industrial scale .
in purely scientific terms , baekelands major contribution to the field is not so much the actual discovery of the material to which he gave his name , but rather the method by which a reaction between phenol and formaldehyde could be controlled , thus making possible its preparation on a commercial basis .
on 13 july 1907 , baekeland took out his famous patent describing this preparation , the essential features of which are still in use today .
the original patent outlined a three stage process , in which phenol and formaldehyde from wood or coal were initially combined under vacuum inside a large egg shaped kettle .
the result was a resin known as novalak , which became soluble and malleable when heated .
the resin was allowed to cool in shallow trays until it hardened , and then broken up and ground into powder .
this resin was then left to cool and harden , and ground up a second time .
the resulting granular powder was raw bakelite , ready to be made into a vast range of manufactured objects .
in the last stage , the heated bakelite was poured into a hollow mould of the required shape and subjected to extreme heat and pressure , thereby setting its form for life .
the design of bakelite objects , everything from earrings to television sets , was governed to a large extent by the technical requirements of the moulding process .
the object could not be designed so that it was locked into the mould and therefore difficult to extract .
a common general rule was that objects should taper towards the deepest part of the mould , and if necessary the product was moulded in separate pieces .
moulds had to be carefully designed so that the molten bakelite would flow evenly and completely into the mould .
sharp corners proved impractical and were thus avoided , giving rise to the smooth , streamlined style popular in the 1930s .
the thickness of the walls of the mould was also crucial .
thick walls took longer to cool and harden , a factor which had to be considered by the designer in order to make the most efficient use of machines .
baekelands invention , although treated with disdain in its early years , went on to enjoy an unparalleled popularity which lasted throughout the first half of the twentieth century .
it became the wonder product of the new world of industrial expansion the material of a thousand uses .
being both non porous and heat resistant , bakelite kitchen goods were promoted as being germ free and sterilisable .
electrical manufacturers seized on its insulating properties , and consumers everywhere relished its dazzling array of shades , delighted that they were now , at last , no longer restricted to the wood tones and drab browns of the preplastic era .
it then fell from favour again during the 1950s , and was despised and destroyed in vast quantities .
however , recently it has been experiencing something of a renaissance , with renewed demand for original bakelite objects in the collectors marketplace , and museums , societies and dedicated individuals once again appreciating the style and originality of this innovative material .
my names dan pearman and id like to talk about the work of pedal , a small charity based mainly in the uk .
i will be giving our contact details at the end , if anyone would like to find out more about how to support us .
but first , how the charity began .
i got the idea of exporting bicycles to developing countries while i was in ecuador .
i went there in 1993 just after graduating from university .
first of all i just like to say , cristina and ibrahim , that i really enjoyed watching your video about student life last week , and i could see that the rest of the group did too .
you did really well , and i hope that you got a lot out of it .
id like to use this tutorial as a feedback session , where you reflect on the experience of doing the project .
so cristina , i was wondering , what did you enjoy most about making the video ?
i liked using the camera .
is it the first time youve operated one like that ?
well the results were very good !
anything else ?
i also enjoyed visiting one of the british students we filmed .
id never been inside a british home before .
ok cristina , thanks .
what about you , ibrahim ?
what did you enjoy ?
well for me it was a very good chance to get to know students who are on other courses , because everyone in our group is studying english , and we dont usually have much to do with the rest of the college .
do you think youll maintain the contact now ?
i hope so .
i have invited three of them to have dinner with me next week .
great !
if you havent decided what to make yet i can tell you theyll love trying arab dishes .
and of course , its good for your english too .
cristina , what did you find ?
what was the most useful aspect of the project from the point of view of the english practice ?
i think , when we were being shown how to edit the film , we had to follow the instructions .
and that was very good practice for me .
and i also learned some technical words that i hadnt heard before .
what about you ibrahim ?
what was the most useful for your english ?
it was listening to the british students , because they dont speak as slowly as most of the tutors on our course .
i think they speak at natural speed , so it forces me to get used to it .
and they use a lot of slang .
so you learned some new words which will be useful ?
yes .
good .
im glad it helped .
well , weve talked a little bit about enjoyment , and about language practice .
were there any other benefits ?
what else did you feel youd learnt from the project ?
was it useful in other ways ?
yes , well firstly , i learned how to use a video camera .
and also , i think i really learned a lot about working together with other people .
ive never done anything with a group before , and we had to find ways of cooperating , erm , and compromising , and sometimes persuading people , when they dont agree with you .
yes , that is a very useful experience , i know .
what about you , ibrahim ?
well , i think i learnt a lot about how important editing is .
when you are filming you think that everythings going to be interesting , but in fact we cut around half of it in the end , and then it was much better .
well , one last thing id like to ask .
what mistakes do you think you , as a group that is , made ?
i mean , to put it another way , if you had to do it all over again , is there anything youd do differently ?
we didnt plan very well .
for example , we didnt decide on dates when wed complete each separate step of the project , and we should have agreed about that in the beginning , because we were always late with everything !
anything else ?
i think we should have tried to experiment more with the camera .
i mean with angles , and the focus and that kind of thing .
so you should have been more ambitious ?
do you agree , ibrahim ?
not really .
in fact , i think we were too ambitious .
we were inexperienced , and we didnt have a lot of time , and we tried to do too much , to make a long film .
next time i would make a shorter one and try to get the quality better .
well , thats very interesting .
next semester we will be doing another video project with a different content , of course , but youll have an opportunity to put into practice what youve learnt this time .
do you have any ideas about .
world science is dominated today by a small number of languages , including japanese , german and french , but it is english which is probably the most popular global language of science .
this is not just because of the importance of english speaking countries such as the usa in scientific research .
the scientists of many non english speaking countries find that they need to write their research papers in english to reach a wide international audience .
given the prominence of scientific english today , it may seem surprising that no one really knew how to write science in english before the 17th century .
before that , latin was regarded as the lingua franca1 for european intellectuals .
the european renaissance from 14th to 16th century is sometimes called the are vival of learning , a time of renewed interest in the lost knowledge of classical times .
tonight im going to talk to you about that remarkable continent antarctica remote , hostile and at present uninhabited on a permanent basis .
for early explorers , it was the ultimate survival contest .
for researchers like me , it remains a place of great intellectual challenge .
while for the modern tourist , its simply a wilderness of great beauty .
first , some facts and figures .
antarctica is a place of extremes the highest , coldest and windiest continent and over fifty eight times the size of the uk .
the ice cap contains almost 70 of the worlds fresh water and 90 of its ice , but with very low snowfall , most of the continent technically falls unbelievably into the category of desert !
huge icebergs break off the continent each year , while in winter half the surrounding ocean freezes over , which means its size almost doubles .
new zealands national party spokesman on education , dr lockwood smith , recently visited the us and britain .
here he reports on the findings of his trip and what they could mean for new zealands education policy .
education to be more was published last august .
it was the report of the new zealand governments early childhood care and education working group .
the report argued for enhanced equity of access and better funding for childcare and early childhood education institutions .
as i said earlier , there is i think at rexford an excellent combination of physical and geographical advantages as well as having rural setting and still being close to central london , something will certainly be of interest to you is that rexford is just 35 minutes from london airport .
at rexford , we have a strong research capability .
we came 7th out of 101 universities in last years research assessment , carried out by a government body and did particularly well in your particular subjects , engineering and science .
actually we got a top research grade of five for engineering , geography and computer sciences .
one further point and i know from talking to you individually that a number of you may be looking for some experience in industry after the course is that all our science and engineering research departments have unusually close relationships with industry in area .
the fertile land of the nile delta is being eroded along egypts mediterranean coast at an astounding rate , in some parts estimated at 100 metres per year .
in the past , land scoured away from the coastline by the currents of the mediterranean sea used to be replaced by sediment brought down to the delta by the river mile , but this is no longer happening .
up to now , people have blamed this loss of delta land on the two large dams at aswan in the south of egypt , which hold back virtually all of the sediment that used to flow down the river .
before the dams were built , the nile flowed freely , carrying huge quantities of sediment north from africas interior to be deposited on the nile delta .
this continued for 7,000 years , eventually covering a region of over 22,000 square kilometres with layers of fertile silt .
annual flooding brought in new , nutrient rich soil to the delta region , replacing what had been washed away by the sea , and dispensing with the need for fertilizers in egypts richest food growing area .
but when the aswan dams were constructed in the 20th century to provide electricity and irrigation , and to protect the huge population centre of cairo and its surrounding areas from annual flooding and drought , most of the sediment with its natural fertilizer accumulated up above the dam in the southern , upstream half of lake nasser , instead of passing down to the delta .
now , however , there turns out to be more to the story .
it appears that the sediment free water emerging from the aswan dams picks up silt and land as it erodes the river bed and banks on the 800 kilometre trip to cairo .
daniel jean stanley of the smithsonian institute noticed that water samples taken in cairo , just before the river enters the delta , indicated that the river sometimes carries more than 850 grams of sediment per cubic metre of water almost half of what it carried before the dams were built .
i am ashamed to say that the significance of this didnt strike me until after i had read 50 or 60 studies , says stanley in marine geology .
there is still a lot of sediment coming into the delta , but virtually no sediment comes out into the mediterranean to replenish the coastline .
so this sediment must be trapped on the delta itself .
once north of cairo , most of the nile water is diverted into more than 10,000 kilometres of irrigation canals and only o small proportion reaches the sea directly through the rivers in the delta .
the water in the irrigation canals is still or very slow moving and thus can not carry sediment , stanley explains .
the sediment sinks to the bottom of the canals and then is added to fields by farmers or pumped with the water into the four large freshwater lagoons that are located near the outer edges of the delta .
so very little of it actually reaches the coastline to replace what is being washed away by the mediterranean currents .
the farms on the delta plains and fishing and aquaculture in the lagoons account for much of egypts food supply .
but by the lime the sediment has come to rest in the fields and lagoons it is laden with municipal , industrial and agricultural waste from the cairo region , which is home to more than 40 million people .
pollutants are building up faster and faster .
based on his investigations of sediment from the delta lagoons , frederic siegel of george washington university concurs .
in manzalah lagoon , for example , the increase in mercury , lead , copper and zinc coincided with the building of the high dam at aswan , the availability of cheap electricity , and the development of major power based industries he says .
since that time the concentration of mercury has increased significantly .
lead from engines that use leaded fuels and from other industrial sources has also increased dramatically .
these poisons can easily enter the food chain , affecting the productivity of fishing and farming .
another problem is that agricultural wastes include fertilizers which stimulate increases in plant growth in the lagoons and upset the ecology of the area , with serious effects on the fishing industry .
according to siegel , international environmental organisations are beginning to pay closer attention to the region , partly because of the problems of erosion and pollution of the nile delta , but principally because they fear the impact this situation could have on the whole mediterranean coastal ecosystem .
but there are no easy solutions .
in the immediate future , stanley believes that one solution would be to make artificial floods to flush out the delta waterways , in the same way that natural floods did before the construction of the dams .
he says , however , that in the long term an alternative process such as desalination may have to be used to increase the amount of water available .
in my view , egypt must devise a way to have more water running through the river and the delta says stanley .
easier said than done in a desert region with a rapidly growing population .
after years in the wilderness , the term artificial intelligence ai seems poised to make a comeback .
ai was big in the 1980s but vanished in the 1990s .
it re entered public consciousness with the release of al , a movie about a robot boy .
this has ignited public debate about ai , but the term is also being used once more within the computer industry .
researchers , executives and marketing people are now using the expression without irony or inverted commas .
my group has been doing a project on how household waste is recycled in britain .
we were quite shocked to discover that only 9 of people here in the uk make an effort to recycle their household waste .
this is a lower figure than in most other european countries , and needs to increase dramatially in the next years if the government is going to meet its recycling targets .
the agreed targets for the uk that by 2008 we must reduce our carbon dioxide emissions by 12,5 compared with 1990 .
and recycling can help to achieve goal , in two main ways .
the production of recycled glass and paper uses much less energy than producing them from virgin materials , and also recycling reduces greenhouse gas emissions from landfill sites and incineration plants .
light is important to organisms for two different reasons .
firstly it is used as a cue for the timing of daily and seasonal rhythms in both plane and animals .
secondly it is used to assist growth in plants .
breeding in most organisms occurs during a part of the year only , and so a reliable cue is needed to trigger breeding behaviour .
day length is an excellent cue , because it provides a perfectly predictable pattern of change within the year .
in the temperate zone in spring , temperatures fluctuate greatly from day to day , but day length increases steadily by a predictable amount .
the seasonal impact of day length on physiological responses is called photoperiodism , and the amount of experimental evidence for this phenomenon is considerable .
for example , some species of birds breeding can be induced even in midwinter simply by increasing day length artificially wolfson 1964 .
other examples of photoperiodism occur in plants .
a short day plant flowers when the day is less than a certain critical length .
a long day plant flowers after a certain critical day length is exceeded .
in both cases the critical day length differs from species to species .
plants which flower after a period of vegetative growth , regardless of photoperiod , are known as day neutral plants .
breeding seasons in animals such as birds have evolved to occupy the part of the year in which offspring have the greatest chances of survival .
before the breeding season begins , food reserves must be built up to support the energy cost of reproduction , and to provide for young birds both when they are in the nest and after fledging .
thus many temperate zone birds use the increasing day lengths in spring as a cue to begin the nesting cycle , because this is a point when adequate food resources will be assured .
the adaptive significance of photoperiodism in plane is also clear .
short day plane that flower in spring in the temperate zone are adapted to maximising seedling growth during the growing season .
long day plants are adapted for situations that require fertilization by insects , or a long period of seed ripening .
short day plane that flower in the autumn in the temperate zone are able to build up food reserves over the growing season and over winter as seeds .
day neutral plane have an evolutionary advantage when the connection between the favourable period for reproduction and day length is much less certain .
for example , desert annuals germinate , flower and seed whenever suitable rainfall occurs , regardless of the day length .
the breeding season of some plants can be delayed to extraordinary lengths .
bamboos are perennial grasses that remain in a vegetative state for many years and then suddenly flower , fruit and die evans 1976 .
every bamboo of the species chusquea abietifolio on the island of jamaica flowered , set seed and died during 1884 .
the next generation of bamboo flowered and died between 1916 and 1918 , which suggests a vegetative cycle of about 31 years .
the climatic trigger for this flowering cycle is not yet known , but the adaptive significance is clear .
the simultaneous production of masses of bamboo seeds in some cases lying 12 to 15 centimetres deep on the ground is more than all the seed eating animals can cope with at the time , so that some seeds escape being eaten and grow up to form the next generation evans 1976 .
the second reason light is important to organisms is that it is essential for photosynthesis .
this is the process by which plants use energy from the sun to convert carbon from soil or water into organic material for growth .
the rate of photosynthesis in a plant can be measured by calculating the rate of its uptake of carbon .
there is a wide range of photosynthetic responses of plants to variations in light intensity .
some plants reach maximal photosynthesis at one quarter full sunlight , and others , like sugarcane , never reach a maximum , but continue to increase photosynthesis rate as light intensity rises .
plants in general can be divided into two groups .
shade tolerant species and shade intolerant species .
this classification is commonly used in forestry and horticulture .
shade tolerant plane have lower photosynthetic rates and hence have lower growth rates than those of shade intolerant species .
plant species become adapted to living in a certain kind of habitat , and in the process evolve a series of characteristics that prevent them from occupying other habitats .
grime 1966 suggests that light may be one of the major components directing these adaptations .
for example , eastern hemlock seedlings are shade tolerant .
they can survive in the forest understorey under very low light levels because they have a low photosynthetic rate .
good evening everyone and thank you for coming to the soccer club meeting .
its good to see so many parents and children here tonight , and i know you are looking forward to a great football season .
now id like to take a few minutes to tell you about some changes to the soccer club for the coming season .
now , this season well be playing all our matches for both the junior and senior competitions at king park , instead of royal park , which was used last season .
now for meetings , we are going to use the clubhouse in kings park , and the next meeting will be held in the clubhouse on the 2nd of july .
as usual , we hope to begin the season with a picnic next saturday at the clubhouse .
please try and come to the picnic as its always good fun .
the last week of the season we usually have a dinner and presentation of prizes to the players , and more information about this will be given to you later in the season .
this season we have more teams than ever .
we hope to have ten teams , instead of five , in the junior competition and they will play on saturday mornings , beginning at 8.30 a.m .
training sessions will be held in kings park on wednesday afternoons for the juniors and they will be wearing red shirts again this year .
in the senior competition , therell be four teams , the same as last year , and their games will be played on saturday afternoons starting at 2.30 .
no sorry , it will be a 2 oclock start , and the training session for seniors is planned for sunday afternoons .
now i would like to introduce you to the new committee for the soccer club for this season .
firstly , let me welcome roberi young , the new president , who will manage the meetings for the next two years .
roberts son has been playing football with the club for over five years now , and many thanks to robert for taking on the job of president .
next we have gina costello , shes the treasurer , and she will collect the fees from you for the season .
please try and give gina your fees as early as possible in the season , as the club needs the money to buy some new equipment .
then theres david west who has volunteered to be the club secretary , and one of the many jobs he will have is to send out newsletters to you regularly .
if you have any information that may be useful , please let david know so that it can be included in these newsletters .
also i would like to introduce you to jason dokic who is the head coach .
for all the new members here tonight , this is the third year that jason has been with us as head coach , and we are very lucky to have such an experienced coach and former player at our club .
he will continue to supervise the teams , at training sessions and on match days .
now before we finish and have some refreshments , does anyone have any questions theyd like to ask the new committee ?
other experts tell of similar experiences .
tony wilmott of london based consulting engineers sandberg , and simon armstrong at cladtech associates in hampshire both say they know of hundreds of cases .
what you hear is only the tip of the iceberg .
says trevor ford , a glass expert at resolve engineering in brisbane .
he believes the reason is simple .
no one wants bad press .
toughened glass is found everywhere , from cars and bus shelters to the windows , walls and roofs of thousands of buildings around the world .
its easy to see why .
this glass has five times the strength of standard glass , and when it does break it shatters into tiny cubes rather than large , razor sharp shards .
architects love it because large panels can be bolted together to make transparent walls , and turning it into ceilings and floors is almost as easy .
it is made by heating a sheet of ordinary glass to about 620 c to soften it slightly , allowing its structure to expand , and then cooling it rapidly with jets of cold air .
this causes the outer layer of the pane to contract and solidify before the interior .
when the interior finally solidifies and shrinks , it exerts a pull on the outer layer that leaves it in permanent compression and produces a tensile force inside the glass .
as cracks propagate best in materials under tension , the compressive force on the surface must be overcome before the pane will break , making it more resistant to cracking .
the problem starts when glass contains nickel sulphide impurities .
trace amounts of nickel and sulphur are usually present in the raw materials used to make glass , and nickel can also be introduced by fragments of nickel alloys falling into the molten glass .
as the glass is heated , these atoms react to form tiny crystals of nickel sulphide .
just a tenth of a gram of nickel in the furnace can create up to 50,000 crystals .
these crystals can exist in two forms .
a dense form called the alpha phase , which is stable at high temperatures , and a less dense form called the beta phase , which is stable at room temperatures .
the high temperatures used in the toughening process convert all the crystals to the dense , compact alpha form .
but the subsequent cooling is so rapid that the crystals dont have time to change back to the beta phase .
this leaves unstable alpha crystals in the glass , primed like a coiled spring , ready to revert to the beta phase without warning .
when this happens , the crystals expand by up to 4 .
and if they are within the central , tensile region of the pane , the stresses this unleashes can shatter the whole sheet .
the time that elapses before failure occurs is unpredictable .
it could happen just months after manufacture , or decades later , although if the glass is heated by sunlight , for example the process is speeded up .
ironically , says graham dodd , of consulting engineers arup in london , the oldest pane of toughened glass known to have failed due to nickel sulphide inclusions was in pilkingtons glass research building in lathom , lancashire .
the pane was 27 years old .
data showing the scale of the nickel sulphide problem is almost impossible to find .
the picture is made more complicated by the fact that these crystals occur in batches .
so even if , on average , there is only one inclusion in 7 tonnes of glass , if you experience one nickel sulphide failure in your building , that probably means you have got a problem in more than one pane .
josie says that in the last decade he has worked on over 15 buildings with the number of failures into double figures .
one of the worst examples of this is waterfront place , which was completed in 1990 .
over the following decade the 40 storey brisbane block suffered a rash of failures .
eighty panes of its toughened glass shattered due to inclusions before experts were finally called in .
john barry , an expert in nickel sulphide contamination at the university of queensland , analysed every glass pane in the building .
using a studio camera , a photographer went up in a cradle to take photos of every pane .
these were scanned under a modified microfiche reader for signs of nickel sulphide crystals .
we discovered at least another 120 panes with potentially dangerous inclusions which were then replaced , says barry .
it was a very expensive and time consuming process that took around six months to complete .
though the project cost a 1,6 million nearly 700,000 , the alternative re cladding the entire building would have cost ten times as much .
jason and karin , now i asked you to look at the case study for box telecom as part of your exam assessment .
its interesting because they are in the middle of problems at the moment and i want you to track how they deal with them .
lets start with you , karin .
having read through the case study , can you just summarise what the problems were that box telecom had to take on board ?
of course what first came to their attention was that , despite a new advertising campaign , they were suffering from falling sales and this is something that had many causes .
on top of that immediate problem , what had also happened over the last two years was that , although that had invested in an expansion plan , they had to face up to increased competition .
the market for tourism in remote areas is booming as never before .
countries ail across the world are actively promoting their wilderness regions such as mountains , arctic lands , deserts , small islands and wetlands to high spending tourists .
the attraction of these areas is obvious .
by definition , wilderness tourism requires little or no initial investment .
but that does not mean that there is no cost .
as the 1992 united nations conference on environment and development recognized , these regions are fragile not just in terms of their ecology , but also in terms of the culture of their inhabitants .
they play hard , they play often , and they play to win .
australian sports teams win more than their fair share of titles , demolishing rivals with seeming ease .
how do they do it ?
a big part of the secret is an extensive and expensive network of sporting academies underpinned by science and medicine .
at the australian institute of sport ais , hundreds of youngsters and pros live and train under the eyes of coaches .
another body , the australian sports commission asc , finances programmes of excellence in a total of 96 sports for thousands of sportsmen and women .
both provide intensive coaching , training facilities and nutritional advice .
inside the academies , science takes centre stage .
the ais employs more than 100 sports scientists and doctors , and collaborates with scores of others in universities and research centres .
ais scientists work across a number of sports , applying skills learned in one such as building muscle strength in golfers to others , such as swimming and squash .
they are backed up by technicians who design instruments to collect data from athletes .
they all focus on one aim is winning .
we cant waste our time looking at ethereal scientific questions that dont help the coach work with an athlete and improve performance , says peter pricker chief of science at ais .
a lot of their work comes down to measurement everything from the exact angle of a swimmers dive to the second by second power output of a cyclist .
this data is used to wring improvements out of athletes .
the focus is on individuals , tweaking performances to squeeze an extra hundredth of a second here , an extra millimetre there .
no gain is too slight to bother with .
its the tiny , gradual improvements that add up to world beating results .
to demonstrate how the system works , bruce mason at ais shows off the prototype of a 3d analysis tool for studying swimmers .
a wire frame model of a champion swimmer slices through the water , her arms moving in slow motion .
looking side on , mason measures the distance between strokes .
from above , he analyses how her spine swivels .
when fully developed , this system will enable him to build a biomechanical profile for coaches to use to help budding swimmers .
masons contribution to sport also includes the development of the swan swimming analysis system now used in australian national competitions .
it collects images from digital cameras running at 50 frames a second and breaks down each part of a swimmers performance into factors that can be analysed individually stroke length , stroke frequency , average duration of each stroke , velocity , start , lap and finish times , and so on .
at the end of each race , swan spits out data on each swimmer .
take a look , says mason , pulling out a sheet of data .
he points out the data on the swimmers in second and third place , which shows that the one who finished third actually swam faster .
so why did he finish 35 hundredths of a second down ?
his turn times were 44 hundredths of a second behind the other guy , says mason .
if he can improve on his turns , he can do much better .
this is the kind of accuracy that ais scientists research is bringing to a range of sports .
with the cooperative research centre for micro technology in melbourne , they are developing unobtrusive sensors that will be embedded in an athletes clothes or running shoes to monitor heart rate , sweating , heat production or any other factor that might have an impact on an athletes ability to run .
theres more to it than simply measuring performance .
pricker gives the example of athletes who may be down with coughs and colds 11 or 12 times a year .
after years of experimentation , ais and the university of newcastle in new south wales developed a test that measures how much of the immune system protein immunoglobulin a is present in athletes saliva .
if lga levels suddenly fall below a certain level , training is eased or dropped altogether .
soon , lga levels start rising again , and the danger passes .
since the tests were introduced , ais athletes in all sports have been remarkably successful at staying healthy .
using data is a complex business .
well before a championship , sports scientists and coaches start to prepare the athlete by developing a competition model , based on what they expect will be the winning times .
you design the model to make that time , says mason .
a start of this much , each free swimming period has to be this fast , with a certain stroke frequency and stroke length , with turns done in these times .
all the training is then geared towards making the athlete hit those targets , both overall and for each segment of the race .
techniques like these have transformed australia into arguably the worlds most successful sporting nation .
of course , theres nothing to stop other countries copying and many have tried .
some years ago , the ais unveiled coolant lined jackets for endurance athletes .
at the atlanta olympic games in 1996 , these sliced as much as two per cent off cyclists and rowers times .
now everyone uses them .
the same has happened to the altitude tent , developed by ais to replicate the effect of altitude training at sea level .
but australias success story is about more than easily copied technological fixes , and up to now no nation has replicated its all encompassing system .
the vast expansion in international trade owes much to a revolution in the business of moving freight .
international trade is growing at a startling pace .
while the global economy has been expanding at a bit over 3 a year , the volume of trade has been rising at a compound annual rate of about twice that .
foreign products , from meat to machinery , play a more important role in almost every economy in the world , and foreign markets now tempt businesses that never much worried about sales beyond their nations borders .
what lies behind this explosion in international commerce ?
the general worldwide decline in trade barriers , such as customs duties and import quotas , is surely one explanation .
the economic opening of countries that have traditionally been minor players is another .
but one force behind the import export boom has passed all but unnoticed .
the rapidly falling cost of getting goods to market .
theoretically , in the world of trade , shipping costs do not matter .
goods , once they have been made , are assumed to move instantly and at no cost from place to place .
the real world , however , is full of frictions .
cheap labour may make chinese clothing competitive in america , but if delays in shipment lie up working capital and cause winter coats to arrive in spring , trade may lose its advantages .
at the turn of the 20th century , agriculture and manufacturing were the two most important sectors almost everywhere , accounting for about 70 of total output in germany , italy and france , and 40 50 in america , britain and japan .
international commerce was therefore dominated by raw materials , such as wheat , wood and iron ore , or processed commodities , such as meat and steel .
but these sorts of products are heavy and bulky and the cost of transporting them relatively high .
countries still trade disproportionately with their geographic neighbours .
over time , however , world output has shitted into goods whose worth is unrelated to their size and weight .
today , it is finished manufactured products that dominate the flow of trade , and , thanks to technological advances such as lightweight components , manufactured goods themselves have tended to become lighter and less bulky .
as a result , less transportation is required for every dollars worth of imports or exports .
to see how this influences trade , consider the business of making disk drives for computers .
most of the worlds disk drive manufacturing is concentrated in south east asia .
this is possible only because disk drives , while valuable , are small and light and so cost little to ship .
computer manufacturers in japan or texas will not face hugely bigger freight bills if they import drives from singapore rather than purchasing them on the domestic market .
distance therefore poses no obstacle to the globalisation of the disk drive industry .
this is even more true of the fast growing information industries .
films and compact discs cost little to transport , even by aeroplane .
computer software can be exported without ever loading it onto a ship , simply by transmitting it over telephone lines from one country to another , so freight rates and cargo handling schedules become insignificant factors in deciding where to make the product .
businesses can locate based on other considerations , such as the availability of labour , while worrying less about the cost of delivering their output .
in many countries deregulation has helped to drive the process along .
but , behind the scenes , a series of technological innovations known broadly as containerisation and intermodal transportation has led to swift productivity improvements in cargo handling .
forty years ago , the process of exporting or importing involved a great many stages of handling , which risked portions of the shipment being damaged or stolen along the way .
the invention of the container crane made it possible to load and unload containers without capsizing the ship and the adoption of standard container sizes allowed almost any box to be transported on any ship .
by 1967 , dual purpose ships , carrying loose cargo in the hold and containers on the deck , were giving way to all container vessels that moved thousands of boxes at a time .
the shipping container transformed ocean shipping into a highly efficient , intensely competitive business .
but getting the cargo to and from the dock was a different story .
national governments , by and large , kept a much firmer hand on truck and railroad tariffs than on charges for ocean freight .
this started changing , however , in the mid 1970s , when america began to deregulate its transportation industry .
first airlines , then road hauliers and railways , were freed from restrictions on what they could carry , where they could haul it and what price they could charge .
big productivity gains resulted .
between 1985 and 1996 , for example , americas freight railways dramatically reduced their employment , trackage , and their fleets of locomotives while increasing the amount of cargo they hauled .
europes railways have also shown marked , albeit smaller , productivity improvements .
in america the period of huge productivity gains in transportation may be almost over , but in most countries the process still has far to go .
state ownership of railways and airlines , regulation of freight rates and toleration of anti competitive practices , such as cargo handling monopolies , all keep the cost of shipping unnecessarily high and deter international trade .
bringing these barriers down would help the worlds economies grow even closer .
the threat posed by climate change in the arctic and the problems faced by canadas inuit people .
unusual incidents are being reported across the arctic .
inuit families going off on snowmobiles to prepare their summer hunting camps have found themselves cut off from home by a sea of mud , following early thaws .
there are reports of igloos losing their insulating properties as the snow drips and refreezes , of lakes draining into the sea as permafrost melts , and sea ice breaking up earlier than usual , carrying seals beyond the reach of hunters .
climate change may still be a rather abstract idea to most of us , but in the arctic it is already having dramatic effects if summertime ice continues to shrink at its present rate , the arctic ocean could soon become virtually ice free in summer .
the knock on effects are likely to include more warming , cloudier skies , increased precipitation and higher sea levels .
scientists are increasingly keen to find out whats going on because they consider the arctic the canary in the mine for global warming a warning of whats in store for the rest of the world .
for the inuit the problem is urgent .
they live in precarious balance with one of the toughest environments on earth .
climate change , whatever its causes , is a direct threat to their way of life .
nobody knows the arctic as well as the locals , which is why they are not content simply to stand back and let outside experts tell them whats happening .
in canada , where the inuit people are jealously guarding their hard won autonomy in the countrys newest territory , nunavut , they believe their best hope of survival in this changing environment lies in combining their ancestral knowledge with the best of modern science .
this is a challenge in itself .
the canadian arctic is a vast , treeless polar desert thats covered with snow for most of the year .
venture into this terrain and you get some idea of the hardships facing anyone who calls this home .
farming is out of the question and nature offers meagre pickings .
humans first settled in the arctic a mere 4,500 years ago , surviving by exploiting sea mammals and fish .
the environment tested them to the limits .
sometimes the colonists were successful , sometimes they failed and vanished .
but around a thousand years ago , one group emerged that was uniquely well adapted to cope with the arctic environment .
these thule people moved in from alaska , bringing kayaks , sleds , dogs , pottery and iron tools .
they are the ancestors of todays inuit people .
life for the descendants of the thule people is still harsh .
nunavut is 1,9 million square kilometres of rock and ice , and a handful of islands around the north pole .
its currently home to 2,500 people , all but a handful of them indigenous inuit .
over the past 40 years , most have abandoned their nomadic ways and settled in the territorys 28 isolated communities , but they still rely heavily on nature to provide food and clothing .
provisions available in local shops have to be flown into nunavut on one of the most costly air networks in the world , or brought by supply ship during the few ice free weeks of summer .
it would cost a family around 7,000 a year to replace meat they obtained themselves through hunting with imported meat .
economic opportunities are scarce , and for many people state benefits are their only income .
while the inuit may not actually starve if hunting and trapping are curtailed by climate change , there has certainly been an impact on peoples health .
obesity , heart disease and diabetes are beginning to appear in a people for whom these have never before been problems .
there has been a crisis of identity as the traditional skills of hunting , trapping and preparing skins have begun to disappear .
in nunavuts igloo and email society , where adults who were born in igloos have children who may never have been out on the land , theres a high incidence of depression .
with so much at stake , the inuit are determined to play a key role in teasing out the mysteries of climate change in the arctic .
having survived there for centuries , they believe their wealth of traditional knowledge is vital to the task .
and western scientists are starting to draw on this wisdom , increasingly referred to as inuit qaujimajatuqangit , or iq .
in the early days scientists ignored us when they came up here to study anything .
they just figured these people dont know very much so we wont ask them , says john amagoalik , an inuit leader and politician .
but in recent years iq has had much more credibility and weight .
in fact it is now a requirement for anyone hoping to get permission to do research that they consult the communities , who are helping to set the research agenda to reflect their most important concerns .
they can turn down applications from scientists they believe will work against their interests , or research projects that will impinge too much on their daily lives and traditional activities .
some scientists doubt the value of traditional knowledge because the occupation of the arctic doesnt go back far enough .
others , however , point out that the first weather stations in the far north date back just 50 years .
there are still huge gaps in our environmental knowledge , and despite the scientific onslaught , many predictions are no more than best guesses .
iq could help to bridge the gap and resolve the tremendous uncertainty about how much of what we are seeing is natural capriciousness and how much is the consequence of human activity .
in the last few weeks , weve been looking at various aspects of the social history of london , and this morning we are continuing with a look at life in the area called the east end .
i will start with a brief history of the district , and then focus on life in the first half of the twentieth century .
back in the first to the fourth centuries ad , when the romans controlled england , london grew into a town of 45,000 people , and whats now the east end the area by the river thames , and along the road heading north east from london to the coast consisted of farmland with crops and livestock which helped to feed that population .
the romans left in 410 , at the beginning of the fifth century , and from then onwards the country suffered a series of invasions by tribes from present day germany and denmark , the angles , saxons and jutes , many of whom settled in the east end .
the technology they introduced meant that metal and leather goods were produced there for the first time .
many believe that the story first began in america in 1877 , when two friends were arguing over whether a horse ever had all four feet or hooves off the ground when it galloped .
to settle the bet , a photographer was asked to photograph a horse galloping and the bet was settled because you could see that all the hooves were off the ground in some of the photos .
what was even more interesting was that if the photos were shown in quick succession the horse looked like it was running in other words moving pictures .
the person who became interested in taking the moving pictures to its next step was the famous american inventor thomas edison .
actually , he didnt do the work himself but rather asked a young scotsman in his employ to design a system , which he did .
the lumi re brothers opened their cin matographe , at 14 boulevard des capucines in paris , to 100 paying customers over 100 years ago , on december 8 , 1895 .
before the eyes of the stunned , thrilled audience , photographs came to life and moved across a flat screen .
so ordinary and routine has this become to us that it takes a determined leap of the imagination to grasp the impact of those first moving images .
but it is worth trying , for to understand the initial shock of those images is to understand the extraordinary power and magic of cinema , the unique , hypnotic quality that has made film the most dynamic , effective art form of the 20th century .
one of the lumi re brothers earliest films was a 30 second piece which showed a section of a railway platform flooded with sunshine .
a train appears and heads straight for the camera .
and that is all that happens .
yet the russian director andrei tarkovsky , one of the greatest of all film artists , described the film as a work of genius .
as the train approached , wrote tarkovsky , panic started in the theatre .
people jumped and ran away .
that was the moment when cinema was born .
the frightened audience could not accept that they were watching a mere picture .
pictures were still , only reality moved .
this must , therefore , be reality .
in their confusion , they feared that a real train was about to crush them .
early cinema audiences often experienced the same confusion .
in time , the idea of film became familiar , the magic was accepted but it never stopped being magic .
film has never lost its unique power to embrace its audiences and transport them to a different world .
for tarkovsky , the key to that magic was the way in which cinema created a dynamic image of the real flow of events .
a still picture could only imply the existence of time , while time in a novel passed at the whim of the reader .
but in cinema , the real , objective flow of time was captured .
one effect of this realism was to educate the world about itself .
for cinema makes the world smaller .
long before people travelled to america or anywhere else , they knew what other places looked like .
they knew how other people worked and lived .
overwhelmingly , the lives recorded at least in film fiction have been american .
from the earliest days of the industry , hollywood has dominated the world film market .
american imagery the cars , the cities , the cowboys became the primary imagery of film .
film carried american life and values around the globe .
and , thanks to film , future generations will know the 20th century more intimately than any other period .
we can only imagine what life was like in the 14lh century or in classical greece .
but the life of the modern world has been recorded on film in massive , encyclopaedic detail .
we shall be known better than any preceding generations .
the star was another natural consequence of cinema .
the cinema star was effectively born in 1910 .
film personalities have such an immediate presence that , inevitably , they become super real .
because we watch them so closely and because everybody in the world seems to know who they are , they appear more real to us than we do ourselves .
the star as magnified human self is one of cinemas most strange and enduring legacies .
cinema has also given a new lease of life to the idea of the story .
when the lumi re brothers and other pioneers began showing off this new invention , it was by no means obvious how it would be used .
all that mattered at first was the wonder of movement .
indeed , some said that , once this novelty had worn off , cinema would fade away .
it was no more than a passing gimmick , a fairground attraction .
cinema might , for example , have become primarily a documentary form .
or it might have developed like television as a strange , noisy transfer of music , information and narrative .
but what happened was that it became , overwhelmingly , a medium for telling stories .
originally these were conceived as short stories early producers doubted the ability of audiences to concentrate for more than the length of a reel .
then , in 1912 , an italian 2 hour film was hugely successful , and hollywood settled upon the novel length narrative that remains the dominant cinematic convention of today .
and it has all happened so quickly .
almost unbelievably , it is a mere 100 years since that train arrived and the audience screamed and fled , convinced by the dangerous reality of what they saw , and , perhaps , suddenly aware that the world could never be the same again that , maybe , it could be better , brighter , more astonishing , more real than reality .
welcome , everybody , to the lovely house and gardens of rosewood , once the home of famous writer , sebastian george .
he bought the house in 1902 although he had first seen it two years earlier .
at that time , the owners let it out to a tenant because george was too slow making up his mind to buy it .
when it came back on the market , there was no hesitation and he bought it immediately , for 9,300 , even though the houses had no bathroom , no running water upstairs , and no electricity .
when he came here , hed been married for ten years .
it is a great deal easier to motivate employees in a growing organisation than a declining one .
when organisations are expanding and adding personnel , promotional opportunities , pay rises , and the excitement of being associated with a dynamic organisation create feelings of optimism .
management is able to use the growth to entice and encourage employees .
when an organisation is shrinking , the best and most mobile workers are prone to leave voluntarily .
unfortunately , they are the ones the organisation can least afford to lose those with the highest skills and experience .
the minor employees remain because their job options are limited .
morale also suffers during decline .
people fear they may be the next to be made redundant .
productivity often suffers , as employees spend their time sharing rumours and providing one another with moral support rather than focusing on their jobs .
for those whose jobs are secure , pay increases are rarely possible .
pay cuts , unheard of during times of growth , may even be imposed .
the challenge to management is how to motivate employees under such retrenchment conditions .
the ways of meeting this challenge can be broadly divided into six key points , which are outlined below .
there is an abundance of evidence to support the motivational benefits that result from carefully matching people to jobs .
for example , if the job is running a small business or an autonomous unit within a larger business , high achievers should be sought .
however , if the ob to be filled is a managerial post in a large bureaucratic organisation , a candidate who las a high need for power and a low need for affiliation should be selected .
accordingly , iigh achievers should not be put into jobs that are inconsistent with their needs .
high achievers will do best when the job provides moderately challenging goals and where there is independence and feedback .
however , it should be remembered that not everybody is motivated by jobs that are high in independence , variety and responsibility .
the literature on goal setting theory suggests that managers should ensure that all employees have specific goals and receive comments on how well they are doing in those goals .
for those with high achievement needs , typically a minority in any organisation , the existence of external goals is less important because high achievers are already internally motivated .
the next factor to be determined is whether the goals should be assigned by a manager or collectively set in conjunction with the employees .
the answer to that depends on perceptions of goal acceptance and the organisations culture .
if resistance to goals is expected , the use of participation in goal setting should increase acceptance .
if participation is inconsistent with the culture , however , goals should be assigned .
if participation and the culture are incongruous , employees are likely to perceive the participation process as manipulative and be negatively affected by it .
regardless of whether goals are achievable or well within managements perceptions of the employees ability , if employees see them as unachievable they will reduce their effort .
managers must be sure , therefore , that employees feel confident that their efforts can lead to performance goals .
for managers , this means that employees must have the capability of doing the job and must regard the appraisal process as valid .
since employees have different needs , what acts as a reinforcement for one may not for another .
managers could use their knowledge of each employee to personalise the rewards over which they have control .
some of the more obvious rewards that managers allocate include pay , promotions , autonomy , job scope and depth , and the opportunity to participate in goal setting and decision making .
managers need to make rewards contingent on performance .
to reward factors other than performance will only reinforce those other factors .
key rewards such as pay increases and promotions or advancements should be allocated for the attainment of the employees specific goals .
consistent with maximising the impact of rewards , managers should look for ways to increase their visibility .
eliminating the secrecy surrounding pay oy openly communicating everyones remuneration , publicising performance bonuses and allocating annual salary increases in a lump sum rather than spreading them out over an entire year are examples of actions that will make rewards more visible and potentially more motivating .
the way rewards are distributed should be transparent so that employees perceive that rewards or outcomes are equitable and equal to the inputs given .
on a simplistic level , experience , abilities , effort and other obvious inputs should explain differences in pay , responsibility and other obvious outcomes .
the problem , however , is complicated by the existence of dozens of inputs and outcomes and by the fact that employee groups place different degrees of importance on them .
for instance , a study comparing clerical and production workers identified nearly twenty inputs and outcomes , me clerical workers considered factors such as quality of work performed and job knowledge near the top of their list , but these were at the bottom of the production workers list .
similarly , production workers thought that the most important inputs were intelligence and personal involvement with task accomplishment , two factors that were quite low in the importance ratings of the clerks .
there were also important , though less dramatic , differences on the outcome side .
for example , production workers rated advancement very highly , whereas clerical workers rated advancement in the lower third of their list .
such findings suggest that one persons equity is anothers in equity , so an ideal should probably weigh different inputs and outcomes according to employee group .
in government laboratories and elsewhere , scientists are seeking a drug able to prolong life and youthful vigor .
studies of caloric restriction are showing the way .
as researchers on aging noted recently , no treatment on the market today has been proved to slow human aging the build up of molecular and cellular damage that increases vulnerability to infirmity as we grow older .
but one intervention , consumption of a low calorie yet nutritionally balanced diet , works incredibly well in a broad range of animals , increasing longevity and prolonging good health .
those findings suggest that caloric restriction could delay aging and increase longevity in humans , too .
last week we were looking at the hunter gatherers in ireland , across the irish sea from england .
today , we are going to move on to the period between four and six thousand years ago , known as the neolithic period , which is when a total farming economy was introduced in ireland .
now , there are several hypotheses about the origins of the first neolithic settlers in ireland , but most of these contain problems .
for instance , there are considerable archaeological difficulties about the theory that they came from england .
pharmaceuticals is one of the most profitable industries in north america .
but do the drugs intrys sales and marketing strategies go too far ?
a few months ago kim schaefer , sales representative of a major global pharmaceutical company , walked into a medical center in new york to bring information and free samples of her companys latest products .
that day she was lucky a doctor was available to see her .
the last rep offered me a trip to florida .
children in developing countries are healthier and more likely to survive past the age of five when their mothers can read and write .
experts in public health accepted this idea decades ago , but until now no one has been able to show that a womans ability to read in itself improves her childrens chances of survival .
most literate women learnt to read in primary school , and the fact that a woman has had an education may simply indicate her familys wealth or that it values its children more highly .
now a long term study carried out in nicaragua has eliminated these factors by showing that teaching reading to poor adult women , who would otherwise have remained illiterate , has a direct effect on their childrens health and survival .
in 1979 , the government of nicaragua established a number of social programmes , including a national literacy crusade .
by 1985 , about 300,000 illiterate adults from all over the country , many of whom had never attended primary school , had learnt how to read , write and use numbers .
during this period , researchers from the liverpool school of tropical medicine , the central american institute of health in nicaragua , the national autonomous university of nicaragua and the costa rican institute of health interviewed nearly 3,000 women , some of whom had learnt to read as children , some during the literacy crusade and some who had never learnt at all .
the women were asked how many children they had given birth to and how many of them had died in infancy .
the research teams also examined the surviving children to find out how well nourished they were .
the investigators findings were striking .
in the late 1970s , the infant mortality rate for the children of illiterate mothers was around 110 deaths per thousand live births .
at this point in their lives , those mothers who later went on to learn to read had a similar level of child mortality 105 1000 .
for women educated in primary school , however , the infant mortality rate was significantly lower , at 80 per thousand .
in 1985 , after the national literacy crusade had ended , the infant mortality figures for those who remained illiterate and for those educated in primary school remained more or less unchanged .
for those women who learnt to read through the campaign , the infant mortality rate was 84 per thousand , an impressive 21 points lower than for those women who were still illiterate .
the children of the newly literate mothers were also better nourished than those of women who could not read .
why are the children of literate mothers better off ?
according to peter sandiford of the liverpool school of tropical medicine , no one knows for certain .
child health was not on the curriculum during the womens lessons , so fie and his colleagues are looking at other factors .
they are working with the same group of 3,000 women , to try to find out whether reading mothers make better use of hospitals and clinics , opt for smaller families , exert more control at home , learn modern childcare techniques more quickly , or whether they merely have more respect for themselves and their children .
hhe nicaraguan study may have important implications for governments and aid agencies that need to know where to direct their resources .
sandiford says that there is increasing evidence that female education , at any age , is an important health intervention in its own right .
the results of the study lend support to the world banks recommendation that education budgets in developing countries should be increased , not just to help their economies , but also to improve child health .
weve known for a long time that maternal education is important , says john cleland of the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine .
but we thought that even if we started educating girls today , wed have to wait a generation for the pay off .
the nicaraguan study suggests we may be able to bypass that .
cleland warns that the nicaraguan crusade was special in many ways , and similar campaigns elsewhere might not work as well .
it is notoriously difficult to teach adults skills that do not have an immediate impact on their everyday lives , and many literacy campaigns in other countries have been much less successful .
the crusade was part of a larger effort to bring a better life to the people , says cleland .
replicating these conditions in other countries will be a major challenge for development workers .
bats have a problem .
how to find their way around in the dark .
they hunt at night , and can not use light to help them find prey and avoid obstacles .
you might say that this is a problem of their own making , one that they could avoid simply by changing their habits and hunting by day .
but the daytime economy is already heavily exploited by other creatures such as birds .
given that there is a living to be made at night , and given that alternative daytime trades are thoroughly occupied , natural selection has favoured bats that make a go of the night hunting trade .
it is probable that the nocturnal trades go way back in the ancestry of all mammals .
in the time when the dinosaurs dominated the daytime economy , our mammalian ancestors probably only managed to survive at all because they found ways of scraping a living at night .
only after the mysterious mass extinction of the dinosaurs about 65 million years ago were our ancestors able to emerge into the daylight in any substantial numbers .
bats have an engineering problem .
how to find their way and find their prey in the absence of light .
bats are not the only creatures to face this difficulty today .
obviously the night flying insects that they prey on must find their way about somehow .
deep sea fish and whales have little or no light by day or by night .
fish and dolphins that live in extremely muddy water can not see because , although there is light , it is obstructed and scattered by the dirt in the water .
plenty of other modern animals make their living in conditions where seeing is difficult or impossible .
given the questions of how to manoeuvre in the dark , what solutions might an engineer consider ?
the first one that might occur to him is to manufacture light , to use a lantern or a searchlight .
fireflies and some fish usually with the help of bacteria have the power to manufacture their own light , but the process seems to consume a large amount of energy .
fireflies use their light for attracting mates .
this doesnt require a prohibitive amount of energy .
a males tiny pinprick of light can be seen by a female from some distance on a dark night , since her eyes are exposed directly to the light source itself .
however using light to find ones own way around requires vastly more energy , since the eyes have to detect the tiny fraction of the light that bounces off each part of the scene .
the light source must therefore be immensely brighter if it is to be used as a headlight to illuminate the path , than if it is to be used as a signal to others .
in any event , whether or not the reason is the energy expense , it seems to be the case that , with the possible exception of some weird deep sea fish , no animal apart from man uses manufactured light to find its way about .
what else might the engineer think of ?
well , blind humans sometimes seem to have an uncanny sense of obstacles in their path .
it has been given the name facial vision , because blind people have reported that it feels a bit like the sense of touch , on the face .
one report tells of a totally blind boy who could ride his tricycle at good speed round the block near his home , using facial vision .
experiments showed that , in fact , facial vision is nothing to do with touch or the front of the face , although the sensation may be referred to the front of the face , like the referred pain in a phantom limb .
the sensation of facial vision , it turns out , really goes in through the ears .
blind people , without even being aware of the fact , are actually using echoes of their own footsteps and of other sounds , to sense the presence of obstacles .
before this was discovered , engineers had already built instruments to exploit the principle , for example to measure the depth of the sea under a ship .
after this technique had been invented , it was only a matter of time before weapons designers adapted it for the detection of submarines .
both sides in the second world war relied heavily on these devices , under such codenames as asdic british and sonar american , as well as radar american or rdf british , which uses radio echoes rather than sound echoes .
the sonar and radar pioneers didnt know it then , but all the world now knows that bats , or rather natural selection working on bats , had perfected the system tens of millions of years earlier .
and their radar achieves feats of detection and navigation that would strike an engineer dumb with admiration .
it is technically incorrect to talk about bat radar , since they do not use radio waves .
it is sonar .
but the underlying mathematical theories of radar and sonar are very similar .
and much of our scientific understanding of the details of what bats are doing has come from applying radar theory to them .
the american zoologist donald griffin , who was largely responsible for the discovery of sonar in bats , coined the term cholocation to cover both sonar and radar , whether used by animals or by human instruments .
thank you all for coming to my talk this evening .
its nice to see so many people in the audience .
for those of you who dont know very much about ps camping , let me start by giving you some background information about the company .
the company started twenty five years ago .
it actually opened as a retail chain selling camping equipment , and then twenty years ago , it bought a small number of campsites in the uk , and began offering camping holidays .
the history of human civilisation is entwined with the history of the ways we have learned to manipulate water resources .
as towns gradually expanded , water was brought from increasingly remote sources , leading to sophisticated engineering efforts such as dams and aqueducts .
at the height of the roman empire , nine major systems , with an innovative layout of pipes and well built sewers , supplied the occupants of rome with as much water per person as is provided in many parts of the industrial world today .
during the industrial revolution and population explosion of the 19th and 20th centuries , the demand for water rose dramatically .
unprecedented construction of tens of thousands of monumental engineering projects designed to control floods , protect clean water supplies , and provide water for irrigation and hydropower brought great benefits to hundreds of millions of people .
but its what these individuals contribute to their places of work that makes you realize how important they are .
of course they bring different ideas , but its also their attitudes and their experiences of learning .
diversity is important in these areas too .
educating psyche by bernie neville is a book which looks at radical new approaches to learning , describing the effects of emotion , imagination and the unconscious on learning .
one theory discussed in the book is that proposed by george lozanov , which focuses on the power of suggestion .
lozanovs instructional technique is based on the evidence that the connections made in the brain through unconscious processing which he calls non specific mental reactivity are more durable than those made through conscious processing .
besides the laboratory evidence for this , we know from our experience that we often remember what we have perceived peripherally , long after we have forgotten what we set out to learn .
if we think of a book we studied months or years ago , we will find it easier to recall peripheral details the colour , the binding , the typeface , the table at the library where we sat while studying it than the content on which we were concentrating .
if we think of a lecture we listened to with great concentration , we will recall the lecturers appearance and mannerisms , our place in the auditorium , the failure of the air conditioning , much more easily than the ideas we went to learn .
even if these peripheral details are a bit elusive , they come back readily in hypnosis or when we relive the event imaginatively , as in psychodrama .
the details of the content of the lecture , on the other hand , seem to have gone forever .
this phenomenon can be partly attributed to the common counterproductive approach to study making extreme efforts to memorise , tensing muscles , inducing fatigue , but it also simply reflects the way the brain functions .
lozanov therefore made indirect instruction suggestion central to his teaching system .
in suggestopedia , as he called his method , consciousness is shifted away from the curriculum to focus on something peripheral .
the curriculum then becomes peripheral and is dealt with by the reserve capacity of the brain .
the suggestopedic approach to foreign language learning provides a good illustration .
in its most recent variant 1980 , it consists of the reading of vocabulary and text while the class is listening to music .
the first session is in two parts .
in the first part , the music is classical mozart , beethoven , brahms and the teacher reads the text slowly and solemnly , with attention to the dynamics of the music .
the students follow the text in their books .
this is followed by several minutes of silence .
in the second part , they listen to baroque music bach , corelli , handel while the teacher reads the text in a normal speaking voice .
during this time they have their books closed .
during the whole of this session , their attention is passive .
they listen to the music but make no attempt to learn the material .
beforehand , the students have been carefully prepared for the language learning experience .
through meeting with the staff and satisfied students they develop the expectation that learning will be easy and pleasant and that they will successfully learn several hundred words of the foreign language during the class .
in a preliminary talk , the teacher introduces them to the material to be covered , but does not teach it .
likewise , the students are instructed not to try to learn it during this introduction .
some hours after the two part session , there is a follow up class at which the students are stimulated to recall the material presented .
once again the approach is indirect .
lozanov experimented with teaching by direct suggestion during sleep , hypnosis and trance states , but found such procedures unnecessary .
hypnosis , yoga , silva mind control , religious ceremonies and faith healing are all associated with successful suggestion , but none of their techniques seem to be essential to it .
such rituals may be seen as placebos .
lozanov acknowledges that the ritual surrounding suggestion in his own system is also a placebo , but maintains that without such a placebo people are unable or afraid to tap the reserve capacity of their brains .
like any placebo , it must be dispensed with authority to be effective .
just as a doctor calls on the full power of autocratic suggestion by insisting that the patient take precisely this white capsule precisely three times a day before meals , lozanov is categoric in insisting that the suggestopedic session be conducted exactly in the manner designated , by trained and accredited suggestopedic teachers .
while suggestopedia has gained some notoriety through success in the teaching of modern languages , few teachers are able to emulate the spectacular results of lozanov and his associates .
we can , perhaps , attribute mediocre results to an inadequate placebo effect .
the students have not developed the appropriate mind set .
they are often not motivated to learn through this method .
they do not have enough faith .
they do not see it as are al teaching , especially as it does not seem to involve the work they have learned to believe is essential to learning .
this is the first seminar in preparation for our archaeological fieldwork in namibia .
we are fantastically lucky to have received partial research funding for this trip from our institute , so i shall expect 200 attention and participation from you all .
first in this seminar , im going to give a brief introduction to contemporary research on rock art , and in the second part , im going to give you some dos and donts for our fieldwork trip in april so please listen very carefully .
im first going to focus on the interpretation of rock art in namibia .
we are very fortunate to be going to an area where you can find some of the most important sites in the entire world .
in a land swept by typhoons and shaken by earthquakes , how have japans tallest and seemingly flimsiest old buildings 500 or so wooden pagodas remained standing for centuries ?
records show that only two have collapsed during the past 1400 years .
those that have disappeared were destroyed by fire as a result of lightning or civil war .
the disastrous hanshin earthquake in 1995 killed 6,400 people , toppled elevated highways , flattened office blocks and devastated the port area of kobe .
yet it left the magnificent five storey pagoda at the toji temple in nearby kyoto unscathed , though it levelled a number of buildings in the neighbourhood .
japanese scholars have been mystified for ages about why these tall , slender buildings are so stable .
it was only thirty years ago that the building industry felt confident enough to erect office blocks of steel and reinforced concrete that had more than a dozen floors .
with its special shock absorbers to dampen the effect of sudden sideways movements from an earthquake , the thirty six storey kasumigaseki building in central tokyo japans first skyscraper was considered a masterpiece of modern engineering when it was built in 1968 .
yet in 826 , with only pegs and wedges to keep his wooden structure upright , the master builder kobodaishi had no hesitation in sending his majestic toji pagoda soaring fifty five metres into the sky nearly half as high as the kasumigaseki skyscraper built some eleven centuries later .
clearly , japanese carpenters of the day knew a few tricks about allowing a building to sway and settle itself rather than fight natures forces .
but what sort of tricks ?
the multi storey pagoda came to japan from china in the sixth century .
as in china , they were first introduced with buddhism and were attached to important temples .
the chinese built their pagodas in brick or stone , with inner staircases , and used them in later centuries mainly as watchtowers .
when the pagoda reached japan , however , its architecture was freely adapted to local conditions they were built less high , typically five rather than nine storeys , made mainly of wood and the staircase was dispensed with because the japanese pagoda did not have any practical use but became more of an art object .
because of the typhoons that batter japan in the summer , japanese builders learned to extend the eaves of buildings further beyond the walls .
this prevents rainwater gushing down the walls .
pagodas in china and korea have nothing like the overhang that is found on pagodas in japan .
the roof of a japanese temple building can be made to overhang the sides of the structure by fifty per cent or more of the buildings overall width .
for the same reason , the builders of japanese pagodas seem to have further increased their weight by choosing to cover these extended eaves not with the porcelain tiles of many chinese pagodas but with much heavier earthenware tiles .
but this does not totally explain the great resilience of japanese pagodas .
is the answer that , like a tall pine tree , the japanese pagoda with its massive trunk like central pillar known as shinbashira simply flexes and sways during a typhoon or earthquake ?
for centuries , many thought so .
but the answer is not so simple because the startling thing is that the shinbashira actually carries no load at all .
in fact , in some pagoda designs , it does not even rest on the ground , but is suspended from the top of the pagoda hanging loosely down through the middle of the building .
the weight of the building is supported entirely by twelve outer and four inner columns .
and what is the role of the shinbashira , the central pillar ?
the best way to understand the shinbashiras role is to watch a video made by shuzo ishida , a structural engineer at kyoto institute of technology .
mr ishida , known to his students as professor pagoda because of his passion to understand the pagoda , has built a series of models and tested them on a shake table in his laboratory .
in short , the shinbashira was acting like an enormous stationary pendulum .
the ancient craftsmen , apparently without the assistance of very advanced mathematics , seemed to grasp the principles that were , more than a thousand years later , applied in the construction of japans first skyscraper .
what those early craftsmen had found by trial and error was that under pressure a pagodas loose stack of floors could be made to slither to and fro independent of one another .
viewed from the side , the pagoda seemed to be doing a snake dance with each consecutive floor moving in the opposite direction to its neighbours above and below .
the shinbashira , running up through a hole in the centre of the building , constrained individual storeys from moving too far because , after moving a certain distance , they banged into it , transmitting energy away along the column .
another strange feature of the japanese pagoda is that , because the building tapers , with each successive floor plan being smaller than the one below , none of the vertical pillars that carry the weight of the building is connected to its corresponding pillar above .
in other words , a five storey pagoda contains not even one pillar that travels right up through the building to carry the structural loads from the top to the bottom .
more surprising is the fact that the individual storeys of a japanese pagoda , unlike their counterparts elsewhere , are not actually connected to each other .
they are simply stacked one on top of another like a pile of hats .
interestingly , such a design would not be permitted under current japanese building regulations .
and the extra wide eaves ?
think of them as a tightrope walkers balancing pole .
the bigger the mass at each end of the pole , the easier it is for the tightrope walker to maintain his or her balance .
the same holds true for a pagoda .
with the eaves extending out on all sides like balancing poles , the building responds to even the most powerful jolt of an earthquake with a graceful swaying , never an abrupt shaking .
here again , japanese master builders of a thousand years ago anticipated concepts of modern structural engineering .
for more than forty years the cost of food has been rising .
it has now reached a point where a growing number of people believe that it is far too high , and that bringing it down will be one of the great challenges of the twenty first century .
that cost , however , is not in immediate cash .
in the west at least , most food is now far cheaper to buy in relative terms than it was in 1960 .
the cost is in the collateral damage of the very methods of food production that have made the food cheaper .
in the pollution of water , the enervation of soil , the destruction of wildlife , the harm to animal welfare and the threat to human health caused by modern industrial agriculture .
first mechanisation , then mass use of chemical fertilisers and pesticides , then monocultures , then battery rearing of livestock , and now genetic engineering the onward march of intensive farming has seemed unstoppable in the last half century , as the yields of produce have soared .
but the damage it has caused has been colossal .
in britain , for example , many of our best loved farmland birds , such as the skylark , the grey partridge , the lapwing and the corn bunting , have vanished from huge stretches of countryside , as have even more wild flowers and insects .
this is a direct result of the way we have produced our food in the last four decades .
thousands of miles of hedgerows , thousands of ponds , have disappeared from the landscape .
the faecal filth of salmon farming has driven wild salmon from many of the sea lochs and rivers of scotland .
natural soil fertility is dropping in many areas because of continuous industrial fertiliser and pesticide use , while the growth of algae is increasing in lakes because of the fertiliser run off .
put it all together and it looks like a battlefield , but consumers rarely make the connection at the dinner table .
that is mainly because the costs of all this damage are what economists refer to as externalities .
they are outside the main transaction , which is for example producing and selling a field of wheat , and are borne directly by neither producers nor consumers .
to many , the costs may not even appear to be financial at all , but merely aesthetic a terrible shame , but nothing to do with money .
and anyway they , as consumers of food , certainly arent paying for it , are they ?
d but the costs to society can actually be quantified and , when added up , can amount to staggering sums .
a remarkable exercise in doing this has been carried out by one of the worlds leading thinkers on the future of agriculture , professor jules pretty , director of the centre for environment and society at the university of essex .
professor pretty and his colleagues calculated the externalities of british agriculture for one particular year .
they added up the costs of repairing the damage it caused , and came up with a total figure of 2,343m .
this is equivalent to 208 for every hectare of arable land and permanent pasture , almost as much again as the total government and eu spend on british farming in that year .
and according to professor pretty , it was a conservative estimate .
the costs included .
120 milions for removal of pesticides .
16 milions for removal of nitrates .
55 milions for removal of phosphates and soil .
23 milions for the removal of the bug cryptosporidium from drinking water by water companies .
125 milions for damage to wildlife habitats , hedgerows and dry stone walls .
1,113 milions from emissions of gases likely to contribute to climate change .
106 milions from soil erosion and organic carbon losses .
169 milions from food poisoning .
and 607m from cattle disease .
professor pretty draws a simple but memorable conclusion from all this .
our food bills are actually threefold .
we are paying for our supposedly cheaper food in three separate ways .
once over the counter , secondly through our taxes , which provide the enormous subsidies propping up modern intensive farming , and thirdly to clean up the mess that modern farming leaves behind .
so can the true cost of food be brought down ?
breaking away from industrial agriculture as the solution to hunger may be very hard for some countries , but in britain , where the immediate need to supply food is less urgent , and the costs and the damage of intensive farming have been clearly seen , it may be more feasible .
the government needs to create sustainable , competitive and diverse farming and food sectors , which will contribute to a thriving and sustainable rural economy , and advance environmental , economic , health , and animal welfare goals .
but if industrial agriculture is to be replaced , what is a viable alternative ?
professor pretty feels that organic farming would be too big a jump in thinking and in practices for many farmers .
furthermore , the price premium would put the produce out of reach of many poorer consumers .
he is recommending the immediate introduction of agreener food standard , which would push the market towards more sustainable environmental practices than the current norm , while not requiring the full commitment to organic production .
such a standard would comprise agreed practices for different kinds of farming , covering agrochemical use , soil health , land management , water and energy use , food safety and animal health .
he says , it could go a long way to shifting consumers as well as farmers towards a more sustainable system of agriculture .
we are pleased to welcome dr martin merrywhether of the antarctic centre in christchurch , new zealand who has come along to talk to us today about the role of the centre and the antarctic treaty .
now my first question is about the choice of location for the centre .
why christchurch ?
was it because of the climate ?
well actually new zealand is the second closest country to antarctica and christchurch is often used on antarctic expeditions .
right , so its because of where we are coupled with our historical role .
so tell us what is the main purpose of the centre ?
the disappointing results of many conventional road transport projects in africa led some experts to rethink the strategy by which rural transport problems were to be tackled at the beginning of the 1980s .
a request for help in improving the availability of transport within the remote makete district of southwestern tanzania presented the opportunity to try a new approach .
the concept of integrated rural transport was adopted in the task of examining the transport needs of the rural households in the district .
the objective was to reduce the time and effort needed to obtain access to essential goods and services through an improved rural transport system .
the underlying assumption was that the time saved would be used instead for activities that would improve the social and economic development of the communities .
the makete integrated rural transport project mirtp started in 1985 with financial support from the swiss development corporation and was co ordinated with the help of the tanzanian government .
when the project began , makete district was virtually totally isolated during the rainy season .
the regional road was in such bad shape that access to the main towns was impossible for about three months of the year .
road traffic was extremely rare within the district , and alternative means of transport were restricted to donkeys in the north of the district .
people relied primarily on the paths , which were slippery and dangerous during the rains .
before solutions could be proposed , the problems had to be understood .
little was known about the transport demands of the rural households , so phase i , between december 1985 and december 1987 , focused on research .
the socio economic survey of more than 400 households in the district indicated that a household in makete spent , on average , seven hours a day on transporting themselves and their goods , a figure which seemed extreme but which has also been obtained in surveys in other rural areas in africa .
interesting facts regarding transport were found .
95 percent was on foot .
80 percent was within the locality .
and 70 percent was related to the collection of water and firewood and travelling to grinding mills .
having determined the main transport needs , possible solutions were identified which might reduce the time and burden .
during phase ii , from january to february 1991 , a number of approaches were implemented in an effort to improve mobility and access to transport .
an improvement of the road network was considered necessary to ensure the import and export of goods to the district .
these improvements were carried out using methods that were heavily dependent on labour .
in addition to the improvement of roads , these methods provided training in the operation of a mechanical workshop and bus and truck services .
however the difference from the conventional approach was that this time consideration was given to local transport needs outside the road network .
most goods were transported along the paths that provide short cuts up and down the hillsides , but the paths were a real safety risk and made the journey on foot even more arduous .
it made sense to improve the paths by building steps , handrails and footbridges .
it was uncommon to find means of transport that were more efficient than walking but less technologically advanced than motor vehicles .
the use of bicycles was constrained by their high cost and the lack of available spare parts .
oxen were not used at all but donkeys were used by a few households in the northern part of the district .
mirtp focused on what would be most appropriate for the inhabitants of makete in terms of what was available , how much they could afford and what they were willing to accept .
after careful consideration , the project chose the promotion of donkeys a donkey costs less than a bicycle and the introduction of a locally manufacturable wheelbarrow .
at the end of phase ii , it was clear that the selected approaches to maketes transport problems had had different degrees of success .
phase iii , from march 1991 to march 1993 , focused on the refinement and institutionalisation of these activities .
the road improvements and accompanying maintenance system had helped make the district centre accessible throughout the year .
essential goods from outside the district had become more readily available at the market , and prices did not fluctuate as much as they had done before .
paths and secondary roads were improved only at the request of communities who were willing to participate in construction and maintenance .
however the improved paths impressed the inhabitants , and requests for assistance greatly increased soon after only a few improvements had been completed .
the efforts to improve the efficiency of the existing transport services were not very successful because most of the motorised vehicles in the district broke down and there were no resources to repair them .
even the introduction of low cost means of transport was difficult because of the general poverty of the district .
the locally manufactured wheelbarrows were still too expensive for all but a few of the households .
modifications to the original design by local carpenters cut production time and costs .
other local carpenters have been trained in the new design so that they can respond to requests .
nevertheless , a locally produced wooden wheelbarrow which costs around 5000 tanzanian shillings less than us 20 in makete , and is about one quarter the cost of a metal wheelbarrow , is still too expensive for most people .
donkeys , which were imported to the district , have become more common and contribute , in particular , to the transportation of crops and goods to market .
those who have bought donkeys are mainly from richer households but , with an increased supply through local breeding , donkeys should become more affordable .
meanwhile , local initiatives are promoting the renting out of the existing donkeys .
it should be noted , however , that a donkey , which at 20,000 tanzanian shillings costs less than a bicycle , is still an investment equal to an average households income over half a year .
this clearly illustrates the need for supplementary measures if one wants to assist the rural poor .
it would have been easy to criticise the mirtp for using in the early phases a top down approach , in which decisions were made by experts and officials before being handed down to communities , but it was necessary to start the process from the level of the governmental authorities of the district .
it would have been difficult to respond to the requests of villagers and other rural inhabitants without the support and understanding of district authorities .
today , nobody in the district argues about the importance of improved paths and inexpensive means of transport .
but this is the result of dedicated work over a long period , particularly from the officers in charge of community development .
they played an essential role in raising awareness and interest among the rural communities .
the concept of integrated rural transport is now well established in tanzania , where a major program of rural transport is just about to start .
my topic is handedness whether in different sports it is better to be left or right sided or whether a more balanced approach is more successful .
i am left handed myself and i actually didnt see any relevance to my own life when i happened to start reading an article by a sports psychologist called peter matthews .
he spent the first part of the article talking about handedness in music instead of sport , which i have to say almost put me off from reading further .
but what i soon became struck by was the sheer volume of both observation and investigation he had done in many different sports and i felt persuaded that what he had to say would be of real interest .
i think matthews findings will be beneficial , not so much in helping sportspeople to work on their weaker side , but more that they can help them identify the most suitable strategies to use in a given game .
when we think of intelligent members of the animal kingdom , the creatures that spring immediately to mind are apes and monkeys .
but in fact the social lives of some members of the insect kingdom are sufficiently complex to suggest more than a hint of intelligence .
among these , the world of the ant has come in for considerable scrutiny lately , and the idea that ants demonstrate sparks of cognition has certainly not been rejected by those involved in these investigations .
ants store food , repel attackers and use chemical signals to contact one another in case of attack .
such chemical communication can be compared to the human use of visual and auditory channels as in religious chants , advertising images and jingles , political slogans and martial music to arouse and propagate moods and attitudes .
i am very pleased to have been invited along to your club to talk about our charity sponsored walking holiday for education aid .
i will start by giving you a brief overview of what it entails .
first of all let me explain what we mean by sponsored here .
this is where people promise to donate money to the charity if you achieve your goal , in this case to walk a certain number of miles .
basically we are organizing a ten day holiday , from the sixth to the sixteenth of november , with eight days actual walking , trekking in the semira mountains .
lets have a look at some of the details .
we require you to raise sponsorship money of at least 3,200 dollar , paying 250 of it up front as a deposit and the rest in stages throughout the year .
out of this about thirty five per cent will go on your expenses , and that leaves sixty five per cent guaranteed to go to the charity .
which brings me to the most important part .
this trek is being specifically organized to help education in the semira region .
last year we helped train teachers for the disabled , and this year we are focusing on the pupils .
each of the walkers sponsorship money will go to help an individual special needs pupil in one of the mountain schools .
in the second part of the talk i will be giving you a lot more details , but back to the basic information .
age limits .
this is the second time we have run this kind of holiday , on the first we even had an eighty year old , but we found it was wise to establish limits this time .
you have to be at least eighteen and the top limit is now seventy , though you need to obtain a health certificate from your doctor if you are over sixty years old .
now , the semira mountains are among the highest in the world but you mustnt be too daunted , we will mainly be trekking in the foothills only , although there will be spectacular views even in the foothills .
however , you will need to be extremely fit if you arent now and you are interested in coming with us .
you have plenty of time to get into shape .
you will be sleeping in tents so you must have quite a bit of equipment with you but you will be helped by local assistants .
your bedding and so forth will be carried by them .
we ask that you only walk with a small rucksack with needs for the day .
i dont think i have really said enough about the marvellous area you will be walking in .
lets have a look at some of the sights you will be seeing .
apart from these spectacular snow covered peaks and valleys , there are marvellous historic villages .
the area has been famous for centuries for making beautiful carpets , although recently there has been a trend to move into weaving blankets and wood carving .
the people are extremely friendly and welcoming .
we deliberately keep the parties small in size to minimize disruption to people and landscape .
i hope that there are still some people interested .
i will be distributing leaflets at the end where you can find out more information , but just for the moment i will outline the itinerary , the main high points of the holiday .
obviously , you will start by flying out to kishba , the capital city , on day one .
after a couple of days to acclimatize yourself , you will start the trek on day three walking through the enormous katiba forest which will take the whole of the day .
day four takes us higher up , going through the foothills past a number of villages and visiting a school for the disabled in sohan .
then you have a rest day , thats day five , before going to the spectacular kumi temple with twelfth century carvings , set in a small forest by a lake and thats day six , the highlight for many .
we stay near there for day seven because then comes the hardest day , walking through very mountainous country , but culminating in a swim in the parteh falls .
this is the highest waterfall in the region .
day nine is much easier , with part of the day spent in a village where they make some of the gorgeous red blankets .
then back down to kishba and the journey home .
so you can see its a pretty packed timetable .
study of the origins and distribution of human populations used to be based on archaeological and fossil evidence .
however , a number of techniques developed since the 1950s , have placed the study of these subjects on a sounder and more objective footing .
the best information on early population movements is now being obtained from the archaeology of the living body , the clues to be found in genetic material .
recent work on the problem of when people first entered the americas is an example of the value of these new techniques .
north east asia and siberia have long been accepted as the launching ground for the first human colonisers of the new world .
but was there one major wave of migration across the bering strait into the americas , or several ?
and when did this event , or events , take place ?
in recent years , new clues have come from research into genetics , including the distribution of genetic markers in modern native americans .
an important project , led by the biological anthropologist robert williams , focused on the variants called gm allotypes of one particular protein immunoglobin g found in the fluid portion of human blood .
all proteins drift , or produce variants , over the generations , and members of an interbreeding human population will share a set of such variants .
illiams and his colleagues sampled the blood of over 5,000 american indians in western north america during a twenty year period .
they found that their gm allotypes could be divided into two groups , one of which also corresponded to the genetic typing of central and south american indians .
other tests showed that the inuit or eskimo and aleut3 formed a third group .
from this evidence it was deduced that there had been three major waves of migration across the bering strait .
the first , paleo lndian , wave more than 15,000 years ago was ancestral to all central and south american indians .
the second wave , about 14,000 12,000 years ago , brought na dene hunters , ancestors of the navajo and apache who only migrated south from canada about 600 or 700 years ago .
the third wave , perhaps 10,000 or 9,000 years ago , saw the migration from north east asia of groups ancestral to the modern eskimo and aleut .
how far does other research support these conclusions ?
geneticist douglas wallace has studied mitochondrial dna4 in blood samples from three widely separated native american groups .
pima papago indians in arizona , maya indians on the yucat n peninsula , mexico , and ticuna indians in the upper amazon region of brazil .
as would have been predicted by robert williamss work , all three groups appear to be descended from the same ancestral paleo lndian population .
there are two other kinds of research that have thrown some light on the origins of the native american population .
they involve the study of teeth and of languages .
the biological anthropologist christy turner is an expert in the analysis of changing physical characteristics in human teeth .
he argues that tooth crowns and roots5 have a high genetic component , minimally affected by environmental and other factors .
studies carried out by turner of many thousands of new and old world specimens , both ancient and modern , suggest that the majority of prehistoric americans are linked to northern asian populations by crown and root traits such as incisor6 shoveling a scooping out on one or both surfaces of the tooth , single rooted upper first premolars6 and triple rooted lower first molars6 .
according to turner , this ties in with the idea of a single paleo lndian migration out of north asia , which he sets at before 14,000 years ago by calibrating rates of dental micro evolution .
tooth analyses also suggest that there were two later migrations of na denes and eskimo aleut .
the linguist joseph greenberg has , since the 1950s , argued that all native american languages belong to a single amerind family , except for na dene and eskimo aleut a view that gives credence to the idea of three main migrations .
greenberg is in a minority among fellow linguists , most of whom favour the notion of a great many waves of migration to account for the more than 1,000 languages spoken at one time by american indians .
but there is no doubt that the new genetic and dental evidence provides strong backing for greenbergs view .
dates given for the migrations should nevertheless be treated with caution , except where supported by hard archaeological evidence .
thanks to all of you for coming along today to hear about how the robotic float project is helping with ocean research .
well , first of all we will look at what a robotic float does and its use .
so lets start with the device itself .
it looks a bit like a cigar and its about one and a half metres long .
more importantly its full of equipment thats designed to collect data .
forests are one of the main elements of our natural heritage .
the decline of europes forests over the last decade and a half has led to an increasing awareness and understanding of the serious imbalances which threaten them .
european countries are becoming increasingly concerned by major threats to european forests , threats which know no frontiers other than those of geography or climate .
air pollution , soil deterioration , the increasing number of forest fires and sometimes even the mismanagement of our woodland and forest heritage .
there has been a growing awareness of the need for countries to get together to co ordinate their policies .
in december 1990 , strasbourg hosted the first ministerial conference on the protection of europes forests .
todays lecture forms part of the hospitality and tourism module .
last week i looked at the economy end of the hotel business .
this week i am going to discuss the luxury end of the market .
lets consider the following scenario ...
you wake up in the middle of the night in a strange hotel miles away from home , disoriented most probably from jet lag , when even the most expensive surroundings can seem empty and dispiriting .
no one knows exactly how the pyramids were built .
marcus chown reckons the answer could be hanging in the air .
the pyramids of egypt were built more than three thousand years ago , and no one knows how .
the conventional picture is that tens of thousands of slaves dragged stones on sledges .
but there is no evidence to back this up .
so whether they were actually used to build the pyramids or not , it seems that kites may make sensible construction tools in the 21 st century ad .
welcome to all of you .
can everybody see and hear me ?
i am sally , your guide for this tour of the bicentennial park .
i hope that you are all wearing your most comfortable shoes and that you can keep up the pace .
so lets get under way on our tour around this wonderful park .
i will start today with some general background information .
more than two hundred years ago , russian explorers and fur hunters landed on the aleutian islands , a volcanic archipelago in the north pacific , and learned of a land mass that lay farther to the north .
the islands native inhabitants called this land mass aleyska , the great land .
today , we know it as alaska .
the forty ninth state to join the united states of america in 1959 , alaska is fully one fifth the size of the mainland 48 states combined .
it shares , with canada , the second longest river system in north america and has over half the coastline of the united states .
the rivers feed into the bering sea and gulf of alaska cold , nutrient rich waters which support tens of millions of seabirds , and over 400 species of fish , shellfish , crustaceans , and molluscs .
taking advantage of this rich bounty , alaskas commercial fisheries have developed into some of the largest in the world .
according to the alaska department of fish , alaskas commercial fisheries landed hundreds of thousands of tonnes of shellfish and herring , and well over a million tonnes of groundfish cod , sole , perch and pollock in 2000 .
however , the true cultural heart and soul of alaskas fisheries is salmon .
notes writer susan ewing in the great alaska nature factbook .
salmon pump through alaska like blood through a heart , bringing rhythmic , circulating nourishment to land , animals and people .
the predictable abundance of salmon allowed some native cultures to flourish , and dying spawners feed bears , eagles , other animals , and ultimately the soil itself .
all five species of pacific salmon chinook , or king .
chum , or dog .
coho , or silver .
sockeye , or red and pink or humpback spawn in alaskan waters , and 90 of all pacific salmon commercially caught in north america are produced there .
indeed , if alaska was an independent nation , it would be the largest producer of wild salmon in the world .
during 2000 , commercial catches of pacific salmon in alaska exceeded 320,000 tonnes , with an ex vessel value of over us260 million .
catches have not always been so healthy .
between 1940 and 1959 , overfishing led to crashes in salmon populations so severe that in 1953 alaska was declared a federal disaster area .
with the onset of statehood , however , the state of alaska took over management of its own fisheries , guided by a state constitution which mandates that alaskas natural resources be managed on a sustainable basis .
at that time , statewide harvests totalled around 25 million salmon .
over the next few decades average catches steadily increased as a result of this policy of sustainable management , until , during the 1990s , annual harvests were well in excess of 100 million , and several occasions over 200 million fish .
the primary reason for such increases is what is known as in season abundance based management .
there are biologists throughout the state constandy monitoring adult fish as they show up to spawn .
the biologists sit in streamside counting towers , study sonar , watch from aeroplanes , and talk to fishermen .
the salmon season in alaska is not pre set .
the fishermen know the approximate time of year when they will be allowed to fish , but on any given day , one or more field biologists in a particular area can put a halt to fishing .
even sport fishing can be brought to a halt .
it is this management mechanism that has allowed alaska salmon stocks and , accordingly , alaska salmon fisheries to prosper , even as salmon populations in the rest of the united states are increasingly considered threatened or even endangered .
in 1999 , the marine stewardship council msc commissioned a review of the alaska salmon fishery .
the council , which was founded in 1996 , certifies fisheries that meet high environmental standards , enabling them to use a label that recognises their environmental responsibility .
the msc has established a set of criteria by which commercial fisheries can be judged .
recognising the potential benefits of being identified as environmentally responsible , fisheries approach the council requesting to undergo the certification process .
the msc then appoints a certification committee , composed of a panel of fisheries experts , which gathers information and opinions from fishermen , biologists , government officials , industry representatives , non governmental organisations and others .
some observers thought the alaska salmon fisheries would not have any chance of certification when , in the months leading up to mscs final decision , salmon runs throughout western alaska completely collapsed .
in the yukon and kuskokwim rivers , chinook and chum runs were probably the poorest since statehood .
subsistence communities throughout the region , who normally have priority over commercial fishing , were devastated .
the crisis was completely unexpected , but researchers believe it had nothing to do with impacts of fisheries .
rather , they contend , it was almost certainly the result of climatic shifts , prompted in part by cumulative effects of the el ni o la ni a phenomenon on pacific ocean temperatures , culminating in a harsh winter in which huge numbers of salmon eggs were frozen .
it could have meant the end as far as the certification process was concerned .
however , the state reacted quickly , closing down all fisheries , even those necessary for subsistence purposes .
in september 2000 , msc announced that the alaska salmon fisheries qualified for certification .
seven companies producing alaska salmon were immediately granted permission to display the msc logo on their products .
certification is for an initial period of five years , with an annual review to ensure that the fishery is continuing to meet the required standards .
in general , it is plausible to suppose that we should prefer peace and quiet to noise .
and yet most of us have had the experience of having to adjust to sleeping in the mountains or the countryside because it was initially too quiet , an experience that suggests that humans are capable of adapting to a wide range of noise levels .
research supports this view .
for example , glass and singer 1972 exposed people to short bursts of very loud noise and then measured their ability to work out problems and their physiological reactions to the noise .
the noise was quite disruptive at first , but after about four minutes the subjects were doing just as well on their tasks as control subjects who were not exposed to noise .
in todays lecture , i am going to talk about monosodium glutamate or msg as its more commonly known .
now , msg as you probably know , is a flavour enhancer which is used particularly in chinese and japanese cooking .
today i am going to explore why it is so popular in these cuisines and , more importantly , how does it enhance the flavour of food ?
the main reason why msg is more commonly used in japanese meals is tradition .
for many thousands of years , the japanese have incorporated a type of seaweed , known as kombu in their cooking .
our conception of time depends on the way we measure it .
according to archaeological evidence , at least 5 , 000 years ago , and long before the advent of the roman empire , the babylonians began to measure time , introducing calendars to co ordinate communal activities , to plan the shipment of goods and , in particular , to regulate planting and harvesting .
they based their calendars on three natural cycles .
the solar day , marked by the successive periods of light and darkness as the earth rotates on its axis .
the lunar month , following the phases of the moon as it orbits the earth .
and the solar year , defined by the changing seasons that accompany our planets revolution around the sun .
before the invention of artificial light , the moon had greater social impact .
and , for those living near the equator in particular , its waxing and waning was more conspicuous than the passing of the seasons .
hence , the calendars that were developed at the lower latitudes were influenced more by the lunar cycle than by the solar year .
in more northern climes , however , where seasonal agriculture was practised , the solar year became more crucial .
as the roman empire expanded northward , it organised its activity chart for the most part around the solar year .
centuries before the roman empire , the egyptians had formulated a municipal calendar having 12 months of 30 days , with five days added to approximate the solar year .
each period of ten days was marked by the appearance of special groups of stars called decans .
at the rise of the star sirius just before sunrise , which occurred around the all important annual flooding of the nile , 12 decans could be seen spanning the heavens .
the cosmic significance the egyptians placed in the 12 decans led them to develop a system in which each interval of darkness and later , each interval of daylight was divided into a dozen equal parts .
these periods became known as temporal hours because their duration varied according to the changing length of days and nights with the passing of the seasons .
summer hours were long , winter ones short .
only at the spring and autumn equinoxes were the hours of daylight and darkness equal .
temporal hours , which were first adopted by the greeks and then the romans , who disseminated them through europe , remained in use for more than 2 , 500 years .
in order to track temporal hours during the day , inventors created sundials , which indicate time by the length or direction of the suns shadow .
the sundials counterpart , the water clock , was designed to measure temporal hours at night .
one of the first water clocks was a basin with a small hole near the bottom through which the water dripped out .
the falling water level denoted the passing hour as it dipped below hour lines inscribed on the inner surface .
although these devices performed satisfactorily around the mediterranean , they could not always be depended on in the cloudy and often freezing weather of northern europe .
the advent of the mechanical clock meant that although it could be adjusted to maintain temporal hours , it was naturally suited to keeping equal ones .
with these , however , arose the question of when to begin counting , and so , in the early 14th century , a number of systems evolved .
the schemes that divided the day into 24 equal parts varied according to the start of the count .
italian hours began at sunset , babylonian hours at sunrise , astronomical hours at midday and great clock hours , used for some large public clocks in germany , at midnight .
eventually these were superseded by small clock , or french , hours , which split the day into two 12 hour periods commencing at midnight .
the earliest recorded weight driven mechanical clock was built in 1283 in bedfordshire in england .
the revolutionary aspect of this new timekeeper was neither the descending weight that provided its motive force nor the gear wheels which had been around for at least 1 , 300 years that transferred the power .
it was the part called the escapement .
in the early 1400s came the invention of the coiled spring or fusee which maintained constant force to the gear wheels of the timekeeper despite the changing tension of its mainspring .
by the 16th century , a pendulum clock had been devised , but the pendulum swung in a large arc and thus was not very efficient .
to address this , a variation on the original escapement was invented in 1670 , in england .
it was called the anchor escapement , which was a lever based device shaped like a ships anchor .
the motion of a pendulum rocks this device so that it catches and then releases each tooth of the escape wheel , in turn allowing it to turn a precise amount .
unlike the original form used in early pendulum clocks , the anchor escapement permitted the pendulum to travel in a very small arc .
moreover , this invention allowed the use of a long pendulum which could beat once a second and thus led to the development of a new floorstanding case design , which became known as the grandfather clock .
today , highly accurate timekeeping instruments set the beat for most electronic devices .
nearly all computers contain a quartz crystal clock to regulate their operation .
moreover , not only do time signals beamed down from global positioning system satellites calibrate the functions of precision navigation equipment , they do so as well for mobile phones , instant stock trading systems and nationwide power distribution grids .
so integral have these time based technologies become to day to day existence that our dependency on them is recognised only when they fail to work .
an accident that occurred in the skies over the grand canyon in 1956 resulted in the establishment of the federal aviation administration faa to regulate and oversee the operation of aircraft in the skies over the united states , which were becoming quite congested .
the resulting structure of air traffic control has greatly increased the safety of flight in the united states , and similar air traffic control procedures are also in place over much of the rest of the world .
rudimentary air traffic control atc existed well before the grand canyon disaster .
as early as the 1920s , the earliest air traffic controllers manually guided aircraft in the vicinity of the airports , using lights and flags , while beacons and flashing lights were placed along cross country routes to establish the earliest airways .
however , this purely visual system was useless in bad weather , and , by the 1930s , radio communication was coming into use for atc .
the first region to have something approximating todays atc was new york city , with other major metropolitan areas following soon after .
in the 1940s , atc centres could and did take advantage of the newly developed radar and improved radio communication brought about by the second world war , but the system remained rudimentary .
it was only after the creation of the faa that full scale regulation of americas airspace took place , and this was fortuitous , for the advent of the jet engine suddenly resulted in a large number of very fast planes , reducing pilots margin of error and practically demanding some set of rules to keep everyone well separated and operating safely in the air .
many people think that atc consists of a row of controllers sitting in front of their radar screens at the nations airports , telling arriving and departing traffic what to do .
this is a very incomplete part of the picture .
the faa realised that the airspace over the united states would at any time have many different kinds of planes , flying for many different purposes , in a variety of weather conditions , and the same kind of structure was needed to accommodate all of them .
to meet this challenge , the following elements were put into effect .
first , atc extends over virtually the entire united states .
in general , from 365m above the ground and higher , the entire country is blanketed by controlled airspace .
in certain areas , mainly near airports , controlled airspace extends down to 215m above the ground , and , in the immediate vicinity of an airport , all the way down to the surface .
controlled airspace is that airspace in which faa regulations apply .
elsewhere , in uncontrolled airspace , pilots are bound by fewer regulations .
in this way , the recreational pilot who simply wishes to go flying for a while without all the restrictions imposed by the faa has only to stay in uncontrolled airspace , below 365m , while the pilot who does want the protection afforded by atc can easily enter the controlled airspace .
the faa then recognised two types of operating environments .
in good meteorological conditions , flying would be permitted under visual flight rules vfr , which suggests a strong reliance on visual cues to maintain an acceptable level of safety .
poor visibility necessitated a set of instrumental flight rules ifr , under which the pilot relied on altitude and navigational information provided by the planes instrument panel to fly safely .
on a clear day , a pilot in controlled airspace can choose a vfr or ifr flight plan , and the faa regulations were devised in a way which accommodates both vfr and ifr operations in the same airspace .
however , a pilot can only choose to fly ifr if they possess an instrument rating which is above and beyond the basic pilots license that must also be held .
controlled airspace is divided into several different types , designated by letters of the alphabet .
uncontrolled airspace is designated class f , while controlled airspace below 5 , 490m above sea level and not in the vicinity of an airport is class e .
all airspace above 5 , 490m is designated class a .
the reason for the division of class e and class a airspace stems from the type of planes operating in them .
generally , class e airspace is where one finds general aviation aircraft few of which can climb above 5 , 490m anyway , and commercial turboprop aircraft .
above 5 , 490m is the realm of the heavy jets , since jet engines operate more efficiently at higher altitudes .
the difference between class e and a airspace is that in class a , all operations are ifr , and pilots must be instrument rated , that is , skilled and licensed in aircraft instrumentation .
this is because atc control of the entire space is essential .
three other types of airspace , classesd , c and b , govern the vicinity of airports .
these correspond roughly to small municipal , medium sized metropolitan and major metropolitan airports respectively , and encompass an increasingly rigorous set of regulations .
for example , all a vfr pilot has to do to enter class c airspace is establish two way radio contact with atc .
no explicit permission from atc to enter is needed , although the pilot must continue to obey all regulations governing vfr flight .
to enter class b airspace , such as on approach to a major metropolitan airport , an explicit atc clearance is required .
the private pilot who cruises without permission into this airspace risks losing their license .
you wanted to see me to get some feedback on your groups proposal .
the one you are submitting for the geography society field trip competition .
ive had a look through your proposal and i think its a really good choice .
in fact , i only have a few things to say about it , but even in an outline document like this you really have to be careful to avoid typos and problems with layout in the proposal , even in the contents page .
so welcome to your introductory geography lecture .
we will begin with some basics .
firstly what do we learn by studying geography ?
well we learn a great deal about all the processes that have affected and that continue effect to the earth surface .
but we learn far more than that , because studying geography also informs us about the different kinds of relationships that develop between a particular environment and the people that live there .
glass , which has been made since the time of the mesopotamians and egyptians , is little more than a mixture of sand , soda ash and lime .
when heated to about 1500 degrees celsius c this becomes a molten mass that hardens when slowly cooled .
the first successful method for making clear , flat glass involved spinning .
this method was very effective as the glass had not touched any surfaces between being soft and becoming hard , so it stayed perfectly unblemished , with a fire finish .
however , the process took a long time and was labour intensive .
nevertheless , demand for flat glass was very high and glassmakers across the world were looking for a method of making it continuously .
the first continuous ribbon process involved squeezing molten glass through two hot rollers , similar to an old mangle .
this allowed glass of virtually any thickness to be made non stop , but the rollers would leave both sides of the glass marked , and these would then need to be ground and polished .
this part of the process rubbed away around 20 per cent of the glass , and the machines were very expensive .
the float process for making flat glass was invented by alistair pilkington .
this process allows the manufacture of clear , tinted and coated glass for buildings , and clear and tinted glass for vehicles .
pilkington had been experimenting with improving the melting process , and in 1952 he had the idea of using a bed of molten metal to form the flat glass , eliminating altogether the need for rollers within the float bath .
the metal had to melt at a temperature less than the hardening point of glass about 600 c , but could not boil at a temperature below the temperature of the molten glass about 1500 c .
the best metal for the job was tin .
the rest of the concept relied on gravity , which guaranteed that the surface of the molten metal was perfectly flat and horizontal .
consequently , when pouring molten glass onto the molten tin , the underside of the glass would also be perfectly flat .
if the glass were kept hot enough , it would flow over the molten tin until the top surface was also flat , horizontal and perfectly parallel to the bottom surface .
once the glass cooled to 604 c or less it was too hard to mark and could be transported out of the cooling zone by rollers .
the glass settled to a thickness of six millimetres because of surface tension interactions between the glass and the tin .
by fortunate coincidence , 60 per cent of the flat glass market at that time was for six millimetre glass .
pilkington built a pilot plant in 1953 and by 1955 he had convinced his company to build a full scale plant .
however , it took 14 months of non stop production , costing the company 100 , 000 a month , before the plant produced any usable glass .
furthermore , once they succeeded in making marketable flat glass , the machine was turned off for a service to prepare it for years of continuous production .
when it started up again it took another four months to get the process right again .
they finally succeeded in 1959 and there are now float plants all over the world , with each able to produce around 1000 tons of glass every day , non stop for around 15 years .
float plants today make glass of near optical quality .
several processes melting , refining , homogenising take place simultaneously in the 2000 tonnes of molten glass in the furnace .
they occur in separate zones in a complex glass flow driven by high temperatures .
it adds up to a continuous melting process , lasting as long as 50 hours , that delivers glass smoothly and continuously to the float bath , and from there to a coating zone and finally a heat treatment zone , where stresses formed during cooling are relieved .
the principle of float glass is unchanged since the 1950s .
however , the product has changed dramatically , from a single thickness of 6 , 8 mm to a range from sub millimetre to 25 mm .
from a ribbon frequently marred by inclusions and bubbles to almost optical perfection .
to ensure the highest quality , inspection takes place at every stage .
occasionally , a bubble is not removed during refining , a sand grain refuses to melt , a tremor in the tin puts ripples into the glass ribbon .
automated on line inspection does two things .
firstly , it reveals process faults upstream that can be corrected .
inspection technology allows more than 100 million measurements a second to be made across the ribbon , locating flaws the unaided eye would be unable to see .
secondly , it enables computers downstream to steer cutters around flaws .
float glass is sold by the square metre , and at the final stage computers translate customer requirements into patterns of cuts designed to minimise waste .
welcome to green vale agricultural park .
as you know , we have only been open a week so you are amongst our first visitors .
we have lots of fascinating indoor and outdoor exhibits on our huge complex , spreading hundreds of hectares .
our remit is to give educational opportunities to the wider public as well as to offer research sites for a wide variety of agriculturists and other scientists .
let start by seeing what there is to do .
as you can see here on our giant wall plan , we are now situated in the reception block here .
as you walk out of the main door into the park there is a path you can follow .
if you follow this route you will immediately come into the rare breeds section , where we keep a wide variety of animals which i shall be telling you a little more about later .
next to this moving east is the large grazing area for the rare breeds .
then further east in the largest section of our park is the forest area .
south of the grazing area and in fact just next to the reception block is our experimental crop area .
in the middle of the park this circular area is our lake .
these two small rectangular shapes here are the fish farms where we rear fish for sale .
to the east of those is the marsh area which attracts a great many migrant birds .
in the south eastern corner , beyond the marsh , is our market garden area , growing vegetables and flowers .
all these areas can be visited by the general public for almost all the year although .
please take note of the large signs at the entrance to each area which tell .
which tell you when certain areas are being used for particular controlled experiments and are therefore temporarily out of bounds to the public .
you can see for yourself what a huge area the park covers and a key questions is always , how can we move around ?
well you have a choice of means all environmentally friendly cars are banned in the park .
we have bicycles which you can hire behind the reception block here .
the healthy ones of you can go on foot and finally theres our electric tram , powered from solar cells .
you find more information about this at the front entrance .
a good place to start on you tour is the rare breeds section .
we keep goats , sheep and hens and other kinds of poultry .
we are also thinking of bringing in cows and horses but we do not , as yet , have facilities for these bigger animals .
the animals are fed in public twice a day and a short lecture given on their feeding habits and nutritional needs .
these are very popular with the public but of course we mustnt lose sight of the main purpose of having this section , .
not as such to preserve rare animals but to maintain the diversity of breeds to broaden the gene pool for agricultural development .
green vale changes with the seasons with different events happening at different times of the year .
may will be perhaps our most spectacular month with the arrival of the canada geese and when our fruit trees will be in full blossom , but there are interesting events on all year around .
for example john havers , our expert fly fisherman , is currently giving displays on the lake .
each of the sections has its own seasonal calendar please consult the summary board at the main entrance .
and the final section , as we return to the reception blocks , is the orchard .
do take time to browse round our shop these is a wide selection of books on wildlife , some of them written by local authors , and the history of farming , including organic farming , something which the park will be diversifying into in the coming months .
this book will provide a detailed examination of the little ice age and other climatic shifts , but , before i embark on that , let me provide a historical context .
we tend to think of climate as opposed to weather as something unchanging , yet humanity has been at the mercy of climate change for its entire existence , with at least eight glacial episodes in the past 730 , 000 years .
our ancestors adapted to the universal but irregular global warming since the end of the last great ice age , around 10 , 000 years ago , with dazzling opportunism .
they developed strategies for surviving harsh drought cycles , decades of heavy rainfall or unaccustomed cold .
adopted agriculture and stock raising , which revolutionised human life .
and founded the worlds first pre industrial civilisations in egypt , mesopotamia and the americas .
but the price of sudden climate change , in famine , disease and suffering , was often high .
the little ice age lasted from roughly 1300 until the middle of the nineteenth century .
only two centuries ago , europe experienced a cycle of bitterly cold winters .
mountain glaciers in the swiss alps were the lowest in recorded memory , and pack ice surrounded iceland for much of the year .
the climatic events of the little ice age did more than help shape the modern world .
they are the deeply important context for the current unprecedented global warming .
the little ice age was far from a deep freeze , however .
rather an irregular seesaw of rapid climatic shifts , few lasting more than a quarter century , driven by complex and still little understood interactions between the atmosphere and the ocean .
the seesaw brought cycles of intensely cold winters and easterly winds , then switched abruptly to years of heavy spring and early summer rains , mild winters , and frequent atlantic storms , or to periods of droughts , light northeasterly winds , and summer heat waves .
reconstructing the climate changes of the past is extremely difficult , because systematic weather observations began only a few centuries ago , in europe and north america .
records from india and tropical africa are even more recent .
for the time before records began , we have only proxy records reconstructed largely from tree rings and ice cores , supplemented by a few incomplete written accounts .
we now have hundreds of tree ring records from throughout the northern hemisphere , and many from south of the equator , too , amplified with a growing body of temperature data from ice cores drilled in antarctica , greenland , the peruvian andes , and other locations .
we are close to a knowledge of annual summer and winter temperature variations over much of the northern hemisphere going back 600 years .
this book is a narrative history of climatic shifts during the past ten centuries , and some of the ways in which people in europe adapted to them .
part one describes the medieval warm period , roughly 900 to 1200 .
during these three centuries , norse voyagers from northern europe explored northern seas , settled greenland , and visited north america .
it was not a time of uniform warmth , for then , as always since the great ice age , there were constant shifts in rainfall and temperature .
mean european temperatures were about the same as today , perhaps slightly cooler .
it is known that the little ice age cooling began in greenland and the arctic in about 1200 .
as the arctic ice pack spread southward , norse voyages to the west were rerouted into the open atlantic , then ended altogether .
storminess increased in the north atlantic and north sea .
colder , much wetter weather descended on europe between 1315 and 1319 , when thousands perished in a continent wide famine .
by 1400 , the weather had become decidedly more unpredictable and stormier , with sudden shifts and lower temperatures that culminated in the cold decades of the late sixteenth century .
fish were a vital commodity in growing towns and cities , where food supplies were a constant concern .
dried cod and herring were already the staples of the european fish trade , but changes in water temperatures forced fishing fleets to work further offshore .
the basques , dutch , and english developed the first offshore fishing boats adapted to a colder and stormier atlantic .
a gradual agricultural revolution in northern europe stemmed from concerns over food supplies at a time of rising populations .
the revolution involved intensive commercial farming and the growing of animal fodder on land not previously used for crops .
the increased productivity from farmland made some countries self sufficient in grain and livestock and offered effective protection against famine .
global temperatures began to rise slowly after 1850 , with the beginning of the modern warm period .
there was a vast migration from europe by land hungry farmers and others , to which the famine caused by the irish potato blight contributed , to north america , australia , new zealand , and southern africa .
millions of hectares of forest and woodland fell before the newcomers axes between 1850 and 1890 , as intensive european farming methods expanded across the world .
the unprecedented land clearance released vast quantities of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere , triggering for the first time humanly caused global warming .
temperatures climbed more rapidly in the twentieth century as the use of fossil fuels proliferated and greenhouse gas levels continued to soar .
the rise has been even steeper since the early 1980s .
the little ice age has given way to a new climatic regime , marked by prolonged and steady warming .
at the same time , extreme weather events like category 5 hurricanes are becoming more frequent .
the sense of smell , or olfaction , is powerful .
odours affect us on a physical , psychological and social level .
for the most part , however , we breathe in the aromas which surround us without being consciously aware of their importance to us .
it is only when the faculty of smell is impaired for some reason that we begin to realise the essential role the sense of smell plays in our sense of well being .
a survey conducted by anthony synott at montreals concordia university asked participants to comment on how important smell was to them in their lives .
ive been doing some research into what people in britain think of doctors , the ones who work in general practice the first call for medical care and comparing this with the situation in a couple of other countries .
i want to talk about the rationale behind what i decided to do .
now i had to set up my programme of research in three different countries so i approached postgraduates in my field in overseas departments , contacting them by email , to organise things for me at their end .
i thought i would have trouble recruiting help but in fact everyone was very willing and sometimes their tutors got involved too .
i had to give my helpers clear instructions about what kind of sample population i wanted them to use .
seldom is the weather more dramatic than when thunderstorms strike .
their electrical fury inflicts death or serious injury on around 500 people each year in the united states alone .
as the clouds roll in , a leisurely round of golf can become a terrifying dice with death out in the open , a lone golfer may be a lightning bolts most inviting target .
and there is damage to property too .
lightning damage costs american power companies more than 100 million a year .
hello , and welcome to focus on the arts .
i am your host dave green and this is your very own local radio programme .
every friday evening we put the spotlight on different arts and culture facilities , and look at the shows and events that are on offer in the coming week .
and today the focus is on the national arts centre .
now , if you dont already know it yourself , i am sure youve all heard of it .
there has always been an interest in geniuses and prodigies .
the word genius , from the latin gens family and the term genius , meaning begetter , comes from the early roman cult of a divinity as the head of the family .
in its earliest form , genius was concerned with the ability of the head of the family , the paterfamilias , toperpetuate himself .
gradually , genius came to represent a persons characteristics and thence an individuals highest attributes derived from his genius or guiding spirit .
today , people still look to stars or genes , astrology or genetics , in the hope of finding the source of exceptional abilities or personal characteristics .
i have been reading your personal statement , paul .
first , lets talk about your work experience in south america .
what took you there ?
was it to gain more fluency in spanish ?
well , as i am combining spanish with latin american studies , my main idea was to find out more about the way people lived there .
our life span is restricted .
everyone accepts this as biologically obvious .
nothing lives for ever !
however , in this statement we think of artificially produced , technical objects , products which are subjected to natural wear and tear during use .
this leads to the result that at some time or other the object stops working and is unusable death in the biological sense .
good morning , everyone .
in the last few lectures i have been dealing with business finance , but now i am going to move on to business systems .
and in todays lecture i am going to talk about what can wrong when businesses to try to copy their own best practices .
one business has successfully introduced a new process managing a branch bank , say , or selling a new product the parent organisation naturally wants to repeat that success , and capture it in possible on a bigger scale .
the goal , then , is to utilise existing knowledge and not to generate new knowledge .
its a less glamorous activity than pure innovation , but it actually happens more often , as a matter of fact .
however , surprisingly , getting things the second time is not necessarily any simpler than it was the first time .
now , theres been a lot of research into how companies can repeat their previous successes , and it certainly hasnt been confined to the united states .
it seems that most large industries are trying to repeat their own successes , and manage the knowledge they have acquired but even so it has been shown that the overwhelming majority of attempts fail .
japan has a significantly better record in terms of average mathematical attainment than england and wales .
large sample international comparisons of pupils attainments since the 1960s have established that not only did japanese pupils at age 13 have better scores of average attainment , but there was also a larger proportion of low attainers in england , where , incidentally , the variation in attainment scores was much greater .
the percentage of gross national product spent on education is reasonably similar in the two countries , so how is this higher and more consistent attainment in maths achieved ?
lower secondary schools in japan cover three school years , from the seventh grade age 13 to the ninth grade age 15 .
virtually all pupils at this stage attend state schools .
only 3 per cent are in the private sector .
schools are usually modem in design , set well back from the road and spacious inside .
classrooms are large and pupils sit at single desks in rows .
lessons last for a standardised 50 minutes and are always followed by a 10 minute break , which gives the pupils a chance to let off steam .
teachers begin with a formal address and mutual bowing , and then concentrate on whole class teaching .
classes are large usually about 40 and are unstreamed .
pupils stay in the same class for all lessons throughout the school and develop considerable class identity and loyalty .
pupils attend the school in their own neighbourhood , which in theory removes ranking by school .
in practice in tokyo , because of the relative concentration of schools , there is some competition to get into the better school in a particular area .
traditional ways of teaching form the basis of the lesson and the remarkably quiet classes take their own notes of the points made and the examples demonstrated .
everyone has their own copy of the textbook supplied by the central education authority , monbusho , as part of the concept of free compulsory education up to the age of 15 .
these textbooks are , on the whole , small , presumably inexpensive to produce , but well set out and logically developed .
one teacher was particularly keen to introduce colour and pictures into maths textbooks .
he felt this would make them more accessible to pupils brought up in a cartoon culture .
besides approving textbooks , monbusho also decides the highly centralised national curriculum and how it is to be delivered .
lessons all follow the same pattern .
at the beginning , the pupils put solutions to the homework on the board , then the teachers comment , correct or elaborate as necessary .
pupils mark their own homework .
this is an important principle in japanese schooling as it enables pupils to see where and why they made a mistake , so that these can be avoided in future .
no one minds mistakes or ignorance as long as you are prepared to learn from them .
after the homework has been discussed , the teacher explains the topic of the lesson , slowly and with a lot of repetition and elaboration .
examples are demonstrated on the board .
questions from the textbook are worked through first with the class , and then the class is set questions from the textbook to do individually .
only rarely are supplementary worksheets distributed in a maths class .
the impression is that the logical nature of the textbooks and their comprehensive coverage of different types of examples , combined with the relative homogeneity of the class , renders work sheets unnecessary .
at this point , the teacher would circulate and make sure that all the pupils were coping well .
it is remarkable that large , mixed ability classes could be kept together for maths throughout all their compulsory schooling from 6 to 15 .
teachers say that they give individual help at the end of a lesson or after school , setting extra work if necessary .
in observed lessons , any strugglers would be assisted by the teacher or quietly seek help from their neighbour .
carefully fostered class identity makes pupils keen to help each other anyway , it is in their interests since the class progresses together .
this scarcely seems adequate help to enable slow learners to keep up .
however , the japanese attitude towards education runs along the lines of if you work hard enough , you can do almost anything .
parents are kept closely informed of their childrens progress and will play a part in helping their children to keep up with class , sending them to juku private evening tuition if extra help is needed and encouraging them to work harder .
it seems to work , at least for 95 per cent of the school population .
so what are the major contributing factors in the success of maths teaching ?
clearly , attitudes are important .
education is valued greatly in japanese culture .
maths is recognised as an important compulsory subject throughout schooling .
and the emphasis is on hard work coupled with a focus on accuracy .
other relevant points relate to the supportive attitude of a class towards slower pupils , the lack of competition within a class , and the positive emphasis on learning for oneself and improving ones own standard .
and the view of repetitively boring lessons and learning the facts by heart , which is sometimes quoted in relation to japanese classes , may be unfair and unjustified .
no poor maths lessons were observed .
they were mainly good and one or two were inspirational .
the continuous and reckless use of synthetic chemicals for the control of pests which pose a threat to agricultural crops and human health is proving to be counter productive .
apart from engendering widespread ecological disorders , pesticides have contributed to the emergence of a new breed of chemical resistant , highly lethal superbugs .
according to a recent study by the food and agriculture organisation fao , more than 300 species of agricultural pests have developed resistance to a wide range of potent chemicals .
not to be left behind are the disease spreading pests , about 100 species of which have become immune to a variety of insecticides now in use .
one glaring disadvantage of pesticides application is that , while destroying harmful pests , they also wipe out many useful non targeted organisms , which keep the growth of the pest population in check .
this results is what agroecologists call the treadmill syndrome .
because of their tremendous breeding potential and genetic diversity , many pests are known to withstand synthetic chemicals and bear offspring with a built in resistance to pesticides .
the havoc that the treadmill syndrome can bring about is well illustrated by what happened to cotton farmers in central america .
in the early 1940s , basking in the glory of chemical based intensive agriculture , the farmers avidly took to pesticides as a sure measure to boost crop yield .
the insecticide was applied eight times a year in the mid 1940s , rising to 28 in a season in the mid 1950s , following the sudden proliferation of three new varieties of chemical resistant pests .
by the mid 1960s , the situation took an alarming turn with the outbreak of four more new pests , necessitating pesticide spraying to such an extent that 50 of the financial outlay on cotton production was accounted for by pesticides .
in the early 1970s , the spraying frequently reached 70 times a season as the farmers were pushed to the wall by the invasion of genetically stronger insect species .
most of the pesticides in the market today remain inadequately tested for properties that cause cancer and mutations as well as for other adverse effects on health , says a study by united states environmental agencies .
the united states national resource defense council has found that ddt was the most popular of a long list of dangerous chemicals in use .
in the face of the escalating perils from indiscriminate applications of pesticides , a more effective and ecologically sound strategy of biological control , involving the selective use of natural enemies of the pest population , is fast gaining popularity though , as yet , it is a new field with limited potential .
the advantage of biological control in contrast to other methods is that it provides a relatively low cost , perpetual control system with a minimum of detrimental side effects .
when handled by experts , bio control is safe , non polluting and self dispersing .
the commonwealth institute of biological control cibc in bangalore , with its global network of research laboratories and field stations , is one of the most active , non commercial research agencies engaged in pest control by setting natural predators against parasites .
cibc also serves as a clearing house for the export and import of biological agents for pest control world wide .
cibc successfully used a seed feeding weevil , native to mexico , to control the obnoxious parthenium weed , known to exert devious influence on agriculture and human health in both india and australia .
similarly the hyderabad based regional research laboratory rrl , supported by cibc , is now trying out an argentinian weevil for the eradication of water hyacinth , another dangerous weed , which has become a nuisance in many parts of the world .
according to mrs kaiser jamil of rrl , the argentinian weevil does not attack any other plant and a pair of adult bugs could destroy the weed in 4 5 days .
cibc is also perfecting the technique for breeding parasites that prey on disapene scale insects notorious defoliants of fruit trees in the us and india .
how effectively biological control can be pressed into service is proved by the following examples .
in the late 1960s , when sri lankas flourishing coconut groves were plagued by leaf mining hispides , a larval parasite imported from singapore brought the pest under control .
a natural predator indigenous to india , neodumetia sangawani , was found useful in controlling the rhodes grass scale insect that was devouring forage grass in many parts of the us .
by using neochetina bruchi , a beetle native to brazil , scientists at kerala agricultural university freed a 12 kilometre long canal from the clutches of the weed salvinia molesta , popularly called african payal in kerala .
about 30000 hectares of rice fields in kerala are infested by this weed .
collecting ants can be as simple as picking up stray ones and placing them in a glass jar , or as complicated as completing an exhaustive survey of all species present in an area and estimating their relative abundances .
the exact method used will depend on the final purpose of the collections .
for taxonomy , or classification , long series , from a single nest , which contain all castes workers , including majors and minors , and , if present , queens and males are desirable , to allow the determination of variation within species .
for ecological studies , the most important factor is collecting identifiable samples of as many of the different species present as possible .
unfortunately , these methods are not always compatible .
the taxonomist sometimes overlooks whole species in favour of those groups currently under study , while the ecologist often collects only a limited number of specimens of each species , thus reducing their value for taxonomic investigations .
to collect as wide a range of species as possible , several methods must be used .
these include hand collecting , using baits to attract the ants , ground litter sampling , and the use of pitfall traps .
hand collecting consists of searching for ants everywhere they are likely to occur .
this includes on the ground , under rocks , logs or other objects on the ground , in rotten wood on the ground or on trees , in vegetation , on tree trunks and under bark .
when possible , collections should be made from nests or foraging columns and at least 20 to 25 individuals collected .
this will ensure that all individuals are of the same species , and so increase their value for detailed studies .
since some species are largely nocturnal , collecting should not be confined to daytime .
specimens are collected using an aspirator often called a poorer , forceps , a fine , moistened paint brush , or fingers , if the ants are known not to sting .
individual insects are placed in plastic or glass tubes 1 , 5 3 0 ml capacity for small ants , 5 8 ml for larger ants containing 75 to 95 ethanol .
plastic tubes with secure tops are better than glass because they are lighter , and do not break as easily if mishandled .
baits can be used to attract and concentrate foragers .
this often increases the number of individuals collected and attracts species that are otherwise elusive .
sugars and meats or oils will attract different species and a range should be utilised .
these baits can be placed either on the ground or on the trunks of trees or large shrubs .
when placed on the ground , baits should be situated on small paper cards or other flat , light coloured surfaces , or in test tubes or vials .
this makes it easier to spot ants and to capture them before they can escape into the surrounding leaf litter .
many ants are small and forage primarily in the layer of leaves and other debris on the ground .
collecting these species by hand can be difficult .
one of the most successful ways to collect them is to gather the leaf litter in which they are foraging and extract the ants from it .
this is most commonly done by placing leaf litter on a screen over a large funnel , often under some heat .
as the leaf litter dries from above , ants and other animals move downward and eventually fall out the bottom and are collected in alcohol placed below the funnel .
this method works especially well in rainforests and marshy areas .
a method of improving the catch when using a funnel is to sift the leaf litter through a coarse screen before placing it above the funnel .
this will concentrate the litter and remove larger leaves and twigs .
it will also allow more litter to be sampled when using a limited number of funnels .
the pitfall trap is another commonly used tool for collecting ants .
a pitfall trap can be any small container placed on the ground with the top level with the surrounding surface and filled with a preservative .
ants are collected when they fall into the trap while foraging .
the diameter of the traps can vary from about 18 mm to 10 cm and the number used can vary from a few to several hundred .
the size of the traps used is influenced largely by personal preference although larger sizes are generally better , while the number will be determined by the study being undertaken .
the preservative used is usually ethylene glycol or propylene glycol , as alcohol will evaporate quickly and the traps will dry out .
one advantage of pitfall traps is that they can be used to collect over a period of time with minimal maintenance and intervention .
one disadvantage is that some species are not collected as they either avoid the traps or do not commonly encounter them while foraging .
i have been invited to talk about my research project into australian aboriginal rock paintings .
the australian aborigines have recorded both real and symbolic images of their time on rock walls for many thousands of years .
throughout the long history of this tradition , new images have appeared and new painting styles have developed .
and these characteristics can be used to categorize the different artistic styles .
the man who invented synthetic dyes william henry perkin was born on march 12 , 1838 , in london , england .
as a boy , perkins curiosity prompted early interests in the arts , sciences , photography , and engineering .
but it was a chance stumbling upon a run down , yet functional , laboratory in his late grandfathers home that solidified the young mans enthusiasm for chemistry .
as a student at the city of london school , perkin became immersed in the study of chemistry .
his talent and devotion to the subject were perceived by his teacher , thomas hall , who encouraged him to attend a series of lectures given by the eminent scientist michael faraday at the royal institution .
those speeches fired the young chemists enthusiasm further , and he later went on to attend the royal college of chemistry , which he succeeded in entering in 1853 , at the age of 15 .
at the time of perkins enrolment , the royal college of chemistry was headed by the noted german chemist august wilhelm hofmann .
perkins scientific gifts soon caught hofmanns attention and , within two years , he became hofmanns youngest assistant .
not long after that , perkin made the scientific breakthrough that would bring him both fame and fortune .
at the time , quinine was the only viable medical treatment for malaria .
the drug is derived from the bark of the cinchona tree , native to south america , and by 1856 demand for the drug was surpassing the available supply .
thus , when hofmann made some passing comments about the desirability of a synthetic substitute for quinine , it was unsurprising that his star pupil was moved to take up the challenge .
during his vacation in 1856 , perkin spent his time in the laboratory on the top floor of his familys house .
he was attempting to manufacture quinine from aniline , an inexpensive and readily available coal tar waste product .
despite his best efforts , however , he did not end up with quinine .
instead , he produced a mysterious dark sludge .
luckily , perkins scientific training and nature prompted him to investigate the substance further .
incorporating potassium dichromate and alcohol into the aniline at various stages of the experimental process , he finally produced a deep purple solution .
historically , textile dyes were made from such natural sources as plants and animal excretions .
some of these , such as the glandular mucus of snails , were difficult to obtain and outrageously expensive .
indeed , the purple colour extracted from a snail was once so costly that in society at the time only the rich could afford it .
further , natural dyes tended to be muddy in hue and fade quickly .
it was against this backdrop that perkins discovery was made .
perkin quickly grasped that his purple solution could be used to colour fabric , thus making it the worlds first synthetic dye .
realising the importance of this breakthrough , he lost no time in patenting it .
but perhaps the most fascinating of all perkins reactions to his find was his nearly instant recognition that the new dye had commercial possibilities .
perkin originally named his dye tyrian purple , but it later became commonly known as mauve from the french for the plant used to make the colour violet .
he asked advice of scottish dye works owner robert pullar , who assured him that manufacturing the dye would be well worth it if the colour remained fast would not fade and the cost was relatively low .
so , over the fierce objections of his mentor hofmann , he left college to give birth to the modern chemical industry .
with the help of his father and brother , perkin set up a factory not far from london .
utilising the cheap and plentiful coal tar that was an almost unlimited by product of londons gas street lighting , the dye works began producing the worlds first synthetically dyed material in 1857 .
the company received a commercial boost from the empress eugenie of france , when she decided the new colour flattered her .
very soon , mauve was the necessary shade for all the fashionable ladies in that country .
not to be outdone , englands queen victoria also appeared in public wearing a mauve gown , thus making it all the rage in england as well .
the dye was bold and fast , and the public clamoured for more .
perkin went back to the drawing board .
although perkins fame was achieved and fortune assured by his first discovery , the chemist continued his research .
among other dyes he developed and introduced were aniline red 1859 and aniline black 1863 and , in the late 1860s , perkins green .
it is important to note that perkins synthetic dye discoveries had outcomes far beyond the merely decorative .
the dyes also became vital to medical research in many ways .
for instance , they were used to stain previously invisible microbes and bacteria , allowing researchers to identify such bacilli as tuberculosis , cholera , and anthrax .
artificial dyes continue to play a crucial role today .
and , in what would have been particularly pleasing to perkin , their current use is in the search for a vaccine against malaria .
now we go to jane who is going to tell us about whats happening in town this weekend .
right , thanks andrew , and now on to whats new , and do we really need yet another sports shop in bradcaster ?
well , most of you probably know sports world the branch of a danish sports goods company that opened a few years ago its attracted a lot of custom , and so the company has now decided to open another branch in the area .
its going to be in the shopping center to the west of bradcaster , so that will be good news for all of you who have found the original shop in the north of the town hard to get to .
i was invited to a special preview and i can promise you , this is the ultimate in sports retailing .
the question of whether we are alone in the universe has haunted humanity for centuries , but we may now stand poised on the brink of the answer to that question , as we search for radio signals from other intelligent civilisations .
this search , often known by the acronym seti search for extra terrestrial intelligence , is a difficult one .
although groups around the world have been searching intermittently for three decades , it is only now that we have reached the level of technology where we can make a determined attempt to search all nearby stars for any sign of life .
the primary reason for the search is basic curiosity the same curiosity about the natural world that drives all pure science .
we want to know whether we are alone in the universe .
before we start , spiros and hiroko thanks for coming in today to talk about your recent study experiences and congratulations to you both in doing so well in your first semester exams !
id like to discuss with you the value of the english for academic purposes course you did here last year before starting your university course .
spiros , if i could start with you , what parts of the programme have now proved to be particularly valuable to you ?
i think that having to do a seminar presentation really helped me .
for example , a couple of weeks ago , in our marketing subject , when it was my turn to give a presentation , i felt quite confident .
of course i was still nervous but because i have done one before , i knew what to expect .
also i know i was well prepared and i had practiced my timing .
in fact i think that in relation to some of the other people in my group , i did quite a good job because my overall style was quite professional .
what about you hiroko ?
thats interesting .
in my group , i was really surprised by the way the students did their presentations .
they just read their notes aloud !
can you believe that ?
they didnt worry about their presentation style or keeping eye contact with their audience .
and i remembered that these things were really stressed to us in the course here .
so how did you approach your presentation hiroko ?
well to speak frankly , i read my notes too .
at that time , it was a relief to do it this way , but actually when i had finished , i didnt feel any real sense of satisfaction .
i didnt feel positive about the experience at all .
thats a pity .
you know although i was pleased with my presentation .
i am not so pleased with my actual performance right now in the tutorials .
during the whole semester i have not said anything in our tutorial discussions .
not a word .
really spiros ?
whys that ?
do the other students talk too much ?
its partly that , but its mostly because i have had no confidence to speak out .
their style of speaking is so different .
its not the style we were used to during the course .
they use so many colloquialisms .
they are not very polite and sometimes there seems to be no oder in their discussion .
also they are very farmiliar with each other so because they know each others habits , they can let each other into the discussion .
you are right spiros .
ive experienced that too .
for most of this semester , i have said absolutely nothing in tutorials .
but recently , i have been trying to speak up more and i just jump in , and i have noticed an interesting thing , i have noticed that if they thought my point was interesting or new , then the next time they actually asked for my opinion , and then it was much easier for me to be part of the discussion .
thats great hiroko .
i hope that happens for me next semester .
i ll have to work hard to find some interesting points .
what helped you to find these ideas ?
i think that one thing that helped me with this was the reading .
i have had to to do so much reading this semester just to help me make sense of the lectures .
at first i couldnt understand what the lectures were talking about , so i had to turn to the books and journals .
everynight i read for hours , using the lists of references that were given and i made pages of notes .
at breakfast , i read and read my notes again .
this habit has helped me to follow the ideas in the lectures and its also given me some ideas to use in the tutorials .
but i did so much reading anyway .
i dont think theres any time left over for anything extra .
my reading speed is still quite slow though i am much better at dealing with vocabulary than i used to be .
what else do you think we could add to the course programe to help with this reading problem ?
theres not really anything because its my problem .
i remember we were given long articles to read .
we didnt like that but now i realise that reading those long articles was good preparation for the things i need to read now .
also , in class we regularly had speed reading tasks to do , and we kept a record of our reading speed , so the teachers were encouraging us to work on that .
if you go back far enough , everything lived in the sea .
at various points in evolutionary history , enterprising individuals within many different animal groups moved out onto the land , sometimes even to the most parched deserts , taking their own private seawater with them in blood and cellular fluids .
in addition to the reptiles , birds , mammals and insects which we see all around us , other groups that have succeeded out of water include scorpions , snails , crustaceans such as woodlice and land crabs , millipedes and centipedes , spiders and various worms .
and we mustnt forget the plants , without whose prior invasion of the land none of the other migrations could have happened .
moving from water to land involved a major redesign of every aspect of life , including breathing and reproduction .
good afternoon everyone .
well , with some of you about to go out on field work its timely that in this afternoons session i will be sharing some ideas about the reasons why groups of whales and dolphins sometimes swim ashore from the sea right onto the beach and , most often , die in what are known as mass strandings .
unfortunately , this type of event is a frequent occurrence in some of the locations that you will be travelling to , where sometimes the tide goes out suddenly , confusing the animals .
however , there are many other theories about the causes of mass strandings .
the first is that the behaviour is linked to parasites .
hearing impairment or other auditory function deficit in young children can have a major impact on their development of speech and communication , resulting in a detrimental effect on their ability to learn at school .
this is likely to have major consequences for the individual and the population as a whole .
the new zealand ministry of health has found from research carried out over two decades that 6 10 of children in that country are affected by hearing loss .
a preliminary study in new zealand has shown that classroom noise presents a major concern for teachers and pupils .
modern teaching practices , the organisation of desks in the classroom , poor classroom acoustics , and mechanical means of ventilation such as air conditioning units all contribute to the number of children unable to comprehend the teachers voice .
transits have helped shape our view of the whole universe , as heather cooper and nigel henbest explain .
on 8 june 2004 , more than half the population of the world were treated to a rare astronomical event .
for over six hours , the planet venus steadily inched its way over the surface of the sun .
this transit of venus was the first since 6 december 1882 .
on that occasion , the american astronomer professor simon newcomb led a party to south africa to observe the event .
they were based at a girls school , where it is alleged the combined forces of three schoolmistresses outperformed the professionals with the accuracy of their observations .
for centuries , transits of venus have drawn explorers and astronomers alike to the four corners of the globe .
and you can put it all down to the extraordinary polymath edmond halley .
in november 1677 , halley observed a transit of the innermost planet , mercury , from the desolate island of st helena in the south pacific .
he realised that , from different latitudes , the passage of the planet across the suns disc would appear to differ .
by timing the transit from two widely separated locations , teams of astronomers could calculate the parallax angle the apparent difference in position of an astronomical body due to a difference in the observers position .
the distance of the earth from the sun .
this distance is known as the astronomical unit or au .
halley was aware that the au was one of the most fundamental of all astronomical measurements .
johannes kepler , in the early 17th century , had shown that the distances of the planets from the sun governed their orbital speeds , which were easily measurable .
but no one had found a way to calculate accurate distances to the planets from the earth .
the goal was to measure the au .
then , knowing the orbital speeds of all the other planets round the sun , the scale of the solar system would fall into place .
however , halley realised that mercury was so far away that its parallax angle would be very difficult to determine .
as venus was closer to the earth , its parallax angle would be larger , and halley worked out that by using venus it would be possible to measure the suns distance to 1 part in 500 .
transits of venus , unlike those of mercury , are rare , occurring in pairs roughly eight years apart every hundred or so years .
nevertheless , he accurately predicted that venus would cross the face of the sun in both 1761 and 1769 though he didnt survive to see either .
inspired by halleys suggestion of a way to pin down the scale of the solar system , teams of british and french astronomers set out on expeditions to places as diverse as india and siberia .
but things werent helped by britain and france being at war .
the person who deserves most sympathy is the french astronomer guillaume le gentil .
he was thwarted by the fact that the british were besieging his observation site at pondicherry in india .
fleeing on a french warship crossing the indian ocean , le gentil saw a wonderful transit but the ships pitching and rolling ruled out any attempt at making accurate observations .
undaunted , he remained south of the equator , keeping himself busy by studying the islands of mauritius and madagascar before setting off to observe the next transit in the philippines .
ironically after travelling nearly 50 , 000 kilometres , his view was clouded out at the last moment , a very dispiriting experience .
while the early transit timings were as precise as instruments would allow , the measurements were dogged by the black drop effect .
when venus begins to cross the suns disc , it looks smeared not circular which makes it difficult to establish timings .
this is due to diffraction of light .
the second problem is that venus exhibits a halo of light when it is seen just outside the suns disc .
while this showed astronomers that venus was surrounded by a thick layer of gases refracting sunlight around it , both effects made it impossible to obtain accurate timings .
but astronomers laboured hard to analyse the results of these expeditions to observe venus transits .
reasonably accurate for the time , that is quite close to todays , determined by radar , which has now superseded transits and all other methods in accuracy .
the au is a cosmic measuring rod , and the basis of how we scale the universe today .
the parallax principle can be extended to measure the distances to the stars .
if we look at a star in january when earth is at one point in its orbit it will seem to be in a different position from where it appears six months later .
knowing the width of earths orbit , the parallax shift lets astronomers calculate the distance .
june 2004s transit of venus was thus more of an astronomical spectacle than a scientifically important event .
but such transits have paved the way for what might prove to be one of the most vital breakthroughs in the cosmos detecting earth sized planets orbiting other stars .
as you know , i have asked you here today to discuss the future of our self access centre .
we have to decide what we want to do about this very important resource for our english language students .
so , can you tell me what the students think about this ?
well , from the students point of view , we would like to keep it .
the majority of students say that they enjoy using it because it provides a variation on the classroom routine and they see it as a pretty major component of their course , but we would like to see some improvements to the equipment , particularly the computers .
there arent enough for one each at the moment and we always have to share .
in the last decade a revolution has occurred in the way that scientists think about the brain .
we now know that the decisions humans make can be traced to the firing patterns of neurons in specific parts of the brain .
these discoveries have led to the field known as neuroeconomics , which studies the brains secrets to success in an economic environment that demands innovation and being able to do things differently from competitors .
a brain that can do this is an iconoclastic one .
briefly , an iconoclast is a person who does something that others say cant be done .
now whether you are going to university to study business or some other subject , many of you will eventually end up working for a company of some kind .
now , when you first start working somewhere you will realise that the organisation you have joined has certain characteristics .
one well known writer has classified company cultures by identifying four major types .
greek island holidays , can i help you ?
yes , i hope so .
i have a friend who have just come back from corfu and shes recommended some apartments in arilas .
she thought they might be on your list .
arilas , arilas , let me see .
can you give me the names ?
yes , the firsts rose garden apartments .
id like to go with another friend in the last week of october .
well , we have got a lovely studio flat available at that time .
i am sure youd enjoy entertainment programme there too , with greek dancing in the restaurant .
it is not easy to be systematic and objective about language study .
popular linguistic debate regularly deteriorates into invective and polemic .
language belongs to everyone , so most people feel they have a right to hold an opinion about it .
and when opinions differ , emotions can run high .
arguments can start as easily over minor points of usage as over major policies of linguistic education .
for the second in our series about locally run businesses , we meet simon winridge , co founder of the hugely successful winridge forest railway park .
now , perhaps you can begin by telling us a little bit about how it all started .
well , during the 1970s , my wife , liz and i had just acquired 80 acres of sheep farming land , and we decided to settle down and have children .
pretty soon we had a daughter , sarah , and a son , duncan .
they particularly loved trains and gradually built up an enormous network of miniature railway track .
i began to develop larger scale models of locomotives but we didnt think anything more of it until i went on a trip to a theme park near birmingham and decided we could do a much better job !
undersea turbines which produce electricity from the tides are set to become an important source of renewable energy for britain .
it is still too early to predict the extent of the impact they may have , but all the signs are that they will play a significant role in the future .
operating on the same principle as wind turbines , the power in sea turbines comes from tidal currents which turn blades similar to ships propellers , but , unlike wind , the tides are predictable and the power input is constant .
the technology raises the prospect of britain becoming self sufficient in renewable energy and drastically reducing its carbon dioxide emissions .
if tide , wind and wave power are all developed , britain would be able to close gas , coal and nuclear power plants and export renewable power to other parts of europe .
information theory lies at the heart of everything from dvd players and the genetic code of dna to the physics of the universe at its most fundamental .
it has been central to the development of the science of communication , which enables data to be sent electronically and has therefore had a major impact on our lives .
in april 2002 an event took place which demonstrated one of the many applications of information theory .
the space probe , voyager i , launched in 1977 , had sent back spectacular images of jupiter and saturn and then soared out of the solar system on a one way mission to the stars .
after 25 years of exposure to the freezing temperatures of deep space , the probe was beginning to show its age .
sensors and circuits were on the brink of failing and nasa experts realised that they had to do something or lose contact with their probe forever .
the solution was to get a message to voyager i to instruct it to use spares to change the failing parts .
with the probe 12 billion kilometres from earth , this was not an easy task .
by means of a radio dish belonging to nasas deep space network , the message was sent out into the depths of space .
even travelling at the speed of light , it took over 11 hours to reach its target , far beyond the orbit of pluto .
yet , incredibly , the little probe managed to hear the faint call from its home planet , and successfully made the switchover .
it was the longest distance repair job in history , and a triumph for the nasa engineers .
but it also highlighted the astonishing power of the techniques developed by american communications engineer claude shannon , who had died just a year earlier .
born in 1916 in petoskey , michigan , shannon showed an early talent for maths and for building gadgets , and made breakthroughs in the foundations of computer technology when still a student .
while at bell laboratories , shannon developed information theory , but shunned the resulting acclaim .
in the 1940s , he single handedly created an entire science of communication which has since inveigled its way into a host of applications , from dvds to satellite communications to bar codes any area , in short , where data has to be conveyed rapidly yet accurately .
this all seems light years away from the down to earth uses shannon originally had for his work , which began when he was a 22 year old graduate engineering student at the prestigious massachusetts institute of technology in 1939 .
to pin down the precise meaning of the concept of information .
the most basic form of information , shannon argued , is whether something is true or false which can be captured in the binary unit , or bit , of the form 1 or 0 .
having identified this fundamental unit , shannon set about defining otherwise vague ideas about information and how to transmit it from place to place .
it is always possible to guarantee information will get through random interference noise intact .
noise usually means unwanted sounds which interfere with genuine information .
information theory generalises this idea via theorems that capture the effects of noise with mathematical precision .
in particular , shannon showed that noise sets a limit on the rate at which information can pass along communication channels while remaining error free .
this rate depends on the relative strengths of the signal and noise travelling down the communication channel , and on its capacity its bandwidth .
the resulting limit , given in units of bits per second , is the absolute maximum rate of error free communication given signal strength and noise level .
the trick , shannon showed , is to find ways of packaging up coding information to cope with the ravages of noise , while staying within the information carrying capacity bandwidth of the communication system being used .
over the years scientists have devised many such coding methods , and they have proved crucial in many technological feats .
the voyager spacecraft transmitted data using codes which added one extra bit for every single bit of information .
the result was an error rate of just one bit in 10 , 000 and stunningly clear pictures of the planets .
other codes have become part of everyday life such as the universal product code , or bar code , which uses a simple error detecting system that ensures supermarket check out lasers can read the price even on , say , a crumpled bag of crisps .
as recently as 1993 , engineers made a major breakthrough by discovering so called turbo codes which come very close to shannons ultimate limit for the maximum rate that data can be transmitted reliably , and now play a key role in the mobile videophone revolution .
shannon also laid the foundations of more efficient ways of storing information , by stripping out superfluous redundant bits from data which contributed little real information .
as mobile phone text messages show , it is often possible to leave out a lot of data without losing much meaning .
as with error correction , however , theres a limit beyond which messages become too ambiguous .
shannon showed how to calculate this limit , opening the way to the design of compression methods that cram maximum information into the minimum space .
in the last few lectures i have been talking about the history of domestic building construction .
but today i want to begin looking at some contemporary , experimental designs for housing .
so , i am going to start with a house which is constructed more or less under the ground .
and one of the interesting things about this project is that the owners both professionals but not architects wanted to be closely involved , so they decided to manage the project themselves .
marie curie is probably the most famous woman scientist who has ever lived .
born marie sklodowska in poland in 1867 , she is famous for her work radioactivity , and twice a winner of the nobel prize .
with her husband , pierre curie , and henri becquerel , she was awarded the 1903 nobel prize for physics , and was the sole winner of the 1911 nobel prize for chemistry .
she was the first woman to win a nobel prize .
from childhood , marie was remarkable for prodigious memory , at the age of 16 won a gold medal on completion of her secondary education .
its laura carlton here .
we have just arrived at the holiday flat .
but i cant get the hot water and heating to work .
a sense of self develops in young children by degrees .
the self as a subject , and the self as an object .
william james introduced the distinction in 1892 , and contemporaries of his , such as charles cooley , added to the developing debate .
ever since then psychologists have continued building on the theory .
according to james , a childs first step on the road to self understanding can be seen as the recognition that he or she exists .
the conviction that historical relics provide infallible testimony about the past is rooted in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , when science was regarded as objective and value free .
a tangible relic seems ipso facto real .
such conviction was , until recently , reflected in museum displays .
good for scholars who wanted to study the subtle differences in design , but not for the ordinary visitor , to whom it all looked alike .
similarly , the information accompanying the objects often made little sense to the lay visitor .
the content and format of explanations dated back to a time when the museum was the exclusive domain of the scientific researcher .
recently , however , attitudes towards history and the way it should be presented have altered .
the key word in heritage display is nowexperience , the more exciting the better and , if possible , involving all the senses .
good examples of this approach in the uk are the jorvik centre in york .
the national museum of photography , film and television in bradford .
and the imperial war museum in london .
williamsburg has been a prototype for many heritage developments in other parts of the world .
no one can predict where the process will end .
on so called heritage sites the re enactment of historical events is increasingly popular , and computers will soon provide virtual reality experiences , which will present visitors with a vivid image of the period of their choice , in which they themselves can act as if part of the historical environment .
such developments have been criticised as an intolerable vulgarisation , but the success of many historical theme parks and similar locations suggests that the majority of the public does not share this opinion .
in a related development , the sharp distinction between museum and heritage sites on the one hand , and theme parks on the other , is gradually evaporating .
they already borrow ideas and concepts from one another .
for example , museums have adopted story lines for exhibitions , sites have accepted theming as a relevant tool , and theme parks are moving towards more authenticity and research based presentations .
in zoos , animals are no longer kept in cages , but in great spaces , either in the open air or in enormous greenhouses , such as the jungle and desert environments in burgerszoo in holland .
this particular trend is regarded as one of the major developments in the presentation of natural history in the twentieth century .
theme parks are undergoing other changes , too , as they try to present more serious social and cultural issues , and move away from fantasy .
this development is a response to market forces and , although museums and heritage sites have a special , rather distinct , role to fulfil , they are also operating in a very competitive environment , where visitors make choices on how and where to spend their free time .
their assets are already in place .
however , exhibits must be both based on artefacts and facts as we know them , and attractively presented .
those who are professionally engaged in the art of interpreting history are thus in a difficult position , as they must steer a narrow course between the demands of evidence and attractiveness , especially given the increasing need in the heritage industry for income generating activities .
it could be claimed that in order to make everything in heritage more real , historical accuracy must be increasingly altered .
for example , pithecanthropus erectus is depicted in an indonesian museum with malay facial features , because this corresponds to public perceptions .
similarly , in the museum of natural history in washington , neanderthal man is shown making a dominant gesture to his wife .
such presentations tell us more about contemporary perceptions of the world than about our ancestors .
if they did not provide the interpretation , visitors would do it for themselves , based on their own ideas , misconceptions and prejudices .
and no matter how exciting the result , it would contain a lot more bias than the presentations provided by experts .
human bias is inevitable , but another source of bias in the representation of history has to do with the transitory nature of the materials themselves .
the simple fact is that not everything from history survives the historical process .
castles , palaces and cathedrals have a longer lifespan than the dwellings of ordinary people .
the same applies to the furnishings and other contents of the premises .
in a town like leyden in holland , which in the seventeenth century was occupied by approximately the same number of inhabitants as today , people lived within the walled town , an area more than five times smaller than modern leyden .
in most of the houses several families lived together in circumstances beyond our imagination .
yet in museums , fine period rooms give only an image of the lifestyle of the upper class of that era .
no wonder that people who stroll around exhibitions are filled with nostalgia .
the evidence in museums indicates that life was so much better in the past .
this notion is induced by the bias in its representation in museums and heritage centres .
today id like to present the findings of our year 2 project on wildlife found in gardens throughout our city .
i will start by saying something about the background to the project , then talk a little bit about our research techniques , and then indicate some of our interim findings .
first of all , how did we choose our topic ?
well , there are four of us in the group and one day while we were discussing a possible focus , two of the group mentioned that they had seen vet more sparrowhawks one of britains most interesting birds of prey in their own city centre gardens and wondered why they were turning up in these gardens in great numbers .
a millennium ago , stepwells were fundamental to life in the driest parts of india .
richard cox travelled to north western india to document these spectacular monuments from a bygone era .
during the sixth and seventh centuries , the inhabitants of the modern day states of gujarat and rajasthan in north western india developed a method of gaining access to clean , fresh groundwater during the dry season for drinking , bathing , watering animals and irrigation .
however , the significance of this invention the stepwell goes beyond its utilitarian application .
unique to the region , stepwells are often architecturally complex and vary widely in size and shape .
during their heyday , they were places of gathering , of leisure , of relaxation and of worship for villagers of all but the lowest castes .
most stepwells are found dotted around the desert areas of gujarat where they are called vav and rajasthan where they are known as baori , while a few also survive in delhi .
some were located in or near villages as public spaces for the community .
others were positioned beside roads as resting places for travellers .
as their name suggests , stepwells comprise a series of stone steps descending from ground level to the water source normally an underground aquifer as it recedes following the rains .
when the water level was high , the user needed only to descend a few steps to reach it .
when it was low , several levels would have to be negotiated .
some wells are vast , open craters with hundreds of steps paving each sloping side , often in tiers .
others are more elaborate , with long stepped passages leading to the water via several storeys built from stone and supported by pillars , they also included pavilions that sheltered visitors from the relentless heat .
but perhaps the most impressive features are the intricate decorative sculptures that embellish many stepwells , showing activities from fighting and dancing to everyday acts such as women combing their hair and churning butter .
down the centuries , thousands of wells were constructed throughout northwestern india , but the majority have now fallen into disuse .
many are derelict and dry , as groundwater has been diverted for industrial use and the wells no longer reach the water table .
southern rajasthan suffered an eight year drought between 1996 and 2004 .
however , some important sites in gujarat have recently undergone major restoration , and the state government announced in june last year that it plans to restore the stepwells throughout the state .
in patan , the states ancient capital , the stepwell of rani ki vav queens stepwell is perhaps the finest current example .
it was built by queen udayamati during the late 11th century , but became silted up following a flood during the 13th century .
but the archaeological survey of india began restoring it in the 1960s , and today its in pristine condition .
at 65 metres long , 20 metres wide and 27 metres deep , rani ki vav features 500 distinct sculptures carved into niches throughout the monument , depicting gods such as vishnu and parvati in various incarnations .
incredibly , in january 2001 , this ancient structure survived a devastating earthquake that measured 7 , 6 on the richter scale .
another example is the surya kund in modhera , northern gujarat , next to the sun temple , built by king bhima i in 1026 to honour the sun god surya .
its actually a tank kund means reservoir or pond rather than a well , but displays the hallmarks of stepwell architecture , including four sides of steps that descend to the bottom in a stunning geometrical formation .
the terraces house 108 small , terraces intricately carved shrines between the sets of steps .
rajasthan also has a wealth of wells .
the ancient city of bundi , 200 kilometres south of jaipur , is reknowned for its architecture , including its stepwells .
one of the larger examples is raniji ki baori , which was built by the queen of the region , nathavatji , in 1699 .
at 46 metres deep , 20 metres wide and 40 metres long , the intricately carved monument is one of 21 baoris commissioned in the bundi area by nathavatji .
in the old ruined town of abhaneri , about 95 kilometres east of jaipur , is chand baori , one of indias oldest and deepest wells .
aesthetically , its perhaps one of the most dramatic .
built in around 850 ad next to the temple of harshat mata , the baori comprises hundreds of zigzagging steps that run along three of its sides , steeply descending 11 storeys , resulting in a striking geometric pattern when seen from afar .
on the fourth side , covered verandas supported by ornate pillars overlook the steps .
still in public use is neemrana ki baori , located just off the jaipur dehli highway .
constructed in around 1700 , its nine storeys deep , with the last two levels underwater .
at ground level , there are 86 colonnaded openings from where the visitor descends 170 steps to the deepest water source .
today , following years of neglect , many of these monuments to medieval engineering have been saved by the archaeological survey of india , which has recognised the importance of preserving them as part of the countrys rich history .
tourists flock to wells in far flung corners of northwestern india to gaze in wonder at these architectural marvels from 1 , 000 years ago , which serve as a reminder of both the ingenuity and artistry of ancient civilisations and of the value of water to human existence .
on behalf of lp clubs , id like to welcome you all here today .
my names sandy fisher and i am one of the fitness managers here .
before we start our tour of the club i will just run through some basic information about the facilities we have here , including recent improvements , and explain the types of membership available .
our greatest asset is probably our swimming pool which at 25 metres isnt olympic sized .
but now we have expanded it to eight lanes , its much wider .
this means there are rarely more than a couple of people at a time in each lane , which means you can enjoy something of the open air experience on warmer days .
unfortunately , there isnt space for an outdoor pool here but the glass roof on the swimming pool is partly retractable .
our recently refurbished fitness suite has all the latest exercise equipment including ten new running machines , and a wide range of weight training machines .
each member is given full training in how to operate the equipment and there is always a trainer on duty to offer help and advice .
although we do have adult only times after 6 and at certain times at weekends , children are well catered for .
older children continue to benefit from a wide range of tuition .
anything from trampolining to yoga .
one thing all our members appreciate about us is that we take very good care of them .
this starts on day one with your personal assessment .
you are asked to fill in a questionnaire giving details of any health problems .
one of our personal trainers will then go through this with you .
the trainer will then take you through the safety rules for using the equipment in the fitness suite .
during your next exercise session a personal trainer will work with you to make sure you understand these .
its very important to do this because we really do want to avoid having any sports injuries .
theres a lot more to looking after yourself than simply lifting weights .
at the end of the personal assessment , the trainer will draw up a plan , outlining what you should try to achieve within a six week period .
this will then be reviewed at the end of the six weeks .
now , i will just quickly run through the types of membership we have available .
all members must pay a joining fee of 90 in addition to the rates for the monthly membership fees .
gold membership entitles you to free entry at all lp clubs .
there are now lp clubs in all major cities and towns so if you travel a lot this will be a great advantage .
individual gold membership costs 50 a month and joint membership for you and your partner will cost 75 .
premier membership is for professional people whose work commitments make it difficult for them to use the club during the day and so lp gives booking preferences to premier members at peak times .
this means you will find it easier to book the sessions at times that suit you .
reciprocal arrangements with other lp clubs are available to premier members .
premier membership is for individuals only , but you will be sent passes for guests every month .
the monthly fee is 65 .
you dont have to have any special clothes or equipment when you visit the club .
we provide robes and hairdryers in the changing rooms , but its very important to remember your photo card because you wont be able to get in without it .
it is difficult to conceive of vigorous economic growth without an efficient transport system .
although modern information technologies can reduce the demand for physical transport by facilitating teleworking and teleservices , the requirement for transport continues to increase .
there are two key factors behind this trend .
for passenger transport , the determining factor is the spectacular growth in car use .
the number of cars on european union eu roads saw an increase of three million cars each year from 1990 to 2010 , and in the next decade the eu will see a further substantial increase in its fleet .
hello professor , i am john wishart .
i am working on my entry for the global design competition .
my tutor said you might be able to help me with it .
ah , yes , i got a copy of your drawings .
come in and tell me about it .
what sort of competition is it ?
well , its an international design competition and we have to come up with a new design for a typical domestic kitchen appliance .
i see , and are there any special conditions ?
does it have to save energy for example ?
actually that was the focus in last years competition .
this years different .
we have to adopt an innovative approach to existing technology , using it in a way that hasnt been thought of before .
i wonder if you could spare a few minutes to do a survey on transport .
it wont take long .
no , thats fine .
the survey is on behalf of the local council .
theyd like to know about what transport you use and any suggestions for improvement .
a cambridge professor says that a change in drinking habits was the reason for the industrial revolution in britain .
alan macfarlane , professor of anthropological science at kings college , cambridge has , like other historians , spent decades wrestling with the enigma of the industrial revolution .
why did this particular big bang the world changing birth of industry happen in britain ?
and why did it strike at the end of the 18th century ?
macfarlane compares the puzzle to a combination lock .
there are about 20 different factors and all of them need to be present before the revolution can happen , he says .
the brackenside open air swimming pool and the childrens adventure playground in central park .
as many of you may know , the idea for these initiatives came from you , the public , in the extensive consultation exercise which the city council conducted last year .
and they have been realised using money from the swrdc the south west regional development commission .
internationally , giftedness is most frequently determined by a score on a general intelligence test , known as an iq test , which is above a chosen cutoff point , usually at around the top from 2 to 5 percent .
childrens educational environment contributes to the iq score and the way intelligence is used .
for example , a very close positive relationship was found when childrens iq scores were compared with their home educational provision freeman , 2010 .
the higher the childrens iq scores , especially over iq 130 , the better the quality of their educational backup , measured in terms of reported verbal interactions with parents , number of books and activities in their home etc .
because iq tests are decidedly influenced by what the child has learned , they are to some extent measures of current achievement based on age norms .
that is , how well the children have learned to manipulate their knowledge and know how within the terms of the test .
the vocabulary aspect , for example , is dependent on having heard those words .
but iq tests can neither identify the processes of learning and thinking nor predict creativity .
excellence does not emerge without appropriate help .
to reach an exceptionally high standard in any area very able children need the means to learn , which includes material to work with and focused challenging tuition and the encouragement to follow their dream .
there appears to be a qualitative difference in the way the intellectually highly able think , compared with more average ability or older pupils , for whom external regulation by the teacher often compensates for lack of internal regulation .
to be at their most effective in their self regulation , all children can be helped to identify their own ways of learning metacognition which will include strategies of planning , monitoring , evaluation , and choice of what to learn .
emotional awareness is also part of metacognition , so children should be helped to be aware of their feelings around the area to be learned , feelings of curiosity or confidence , for example .
high achievers have been found to use self regulatory learning strategies more often and more effectively than lower achievers , and are better able to transfer these strategies to deal with unfamiliar tasks .
this happens to such a high degree in some children that they appear to be demonstrating talent in particular areas .
if they the gifted merely think more quickly , then we need only teach more quickly .
if they merely make fewer errors , then we can shorten the practice .
but of course , this is not entirely the case .
adjustments have to be made in methods of learning and teaching , to take account of the many ways individuals think .
yet in order to learn by themselves , the gifted do need some support from their teachers .
conversely , teachers who have a tendency to overdirect can diminish their gifted pupils learning autonomy .
although spoon feeding can produce extremely high examination results , these are not always followed by equally impressive life successes .
too much dependence on the teachers risks loss of autonomy and motivation to discover .
however , when teachers o pupils to reflect on their own learning and thinking activities , they increase their pupils self regulation .
for a young child , it may be just the simple question what have you learned today ?
which helps them to recognise what they are doing .
given that a fundamental goal of education is to transfer the control of learning from teachers to pupils , improving pupils learning to learn techniques should be a major outcome of the school experience , especially for the highly competent .
there are quite a number of new methods which can help , such as child initiated learning , ability peer tutoring , etc .
such practices have been found to be particularly useful for bright children from deprived areas .
individuals who know a great deal about a specific domain will achieve at a higher level than those who do not elshout , 1995 .
research with creative scientists by simonton 1988 brought him to the conclusion that above a certain high level , characteristics such as independence seemed to contribute more to reaching the highest levels of expertise than intellectual skills , due to the great demands of effort and time needed for learning and practice .
creativity in all forms can be seen as expertise se mixed with a high level of motivation weisberg , 1993 .
to sum up , learning is affected by emotions of both the individual and significant others .
positive emotions facilitate the creative aspects of earning and negative emotions inhibit it .
fear , for example , can limit the development of curiosity , which is a strong force in scientific advance , because it motivates problem solving behaviour .
in boekaerts 1991 review of emotion the learning of very high iq and highly achieving children , she found emotional forces in harness .
they were not only curious , but often had a strong desire to control their environment , improve their learning efficiency and increase their own learning resources .
right , well , for our presentation shall i start with the early life of thor heyerdahl ?
why dont you begin with describing the type of boy he was , especially his passion for collecting things .
thats right , he had his own little museum .
and i think its unusual for children to develop their own values and not join in their parents hobbies .
i am thinking of how heyerdahl wouldnt go hunting with his dad , for example .
yeah , he preferred to learn about nature by listening to his mother read to him .
and quite early on he knew he wanted to become an explorer when he grew up .
that came from his camping trips he went on in norway i think .
no , it was climbing that he spent his time on as a young man .
oh , right after university he married a classmate and together , they decided to experience living on a small island , to find out how harsh weather conditions shaped peoples lifestyles .
as part of their preparation before they left home , they learnt basic survival skills like building a shelter .
i guess they needed that knowledge in order to live wild in a remote location with few inhabitants , cut off by the sea , which is what they were aiming to do .
an important part of your talk should be the radical theory heyerdahl formed from examining mysterious ancient carvings that he happened to find on the island .
i think you should finish with that .
all right , victor , so after your part i will talk about thor heyerdahls adult life , continuing from the theory he had about polynesian migration .
up until that time of course , academics had believed that humans first migrated to the islands in polynesia from asia , in the west .
yes , they thought that travel from the east was impossible , because of the huge , empty stretch of ocean that lies between the islands and the nearest inhabited land .
yes , but heyerdahl spent ages studying the cloud movements , ocean currents and wind patterns to find if it was actually possible .
and another argument was that there was no tradition of large ship building in the communities lying to the east of polynesia .
but heyerdahl knew they made lots of coastal voyages in locally built canoes .
yes , or sailing on rafts , as was shown by the long voyage that heyerdahl did next .
it was an incredibly risky journey to undertake sometimes i wonder if he did that trip for private reasons , you know ?
to show others that he could have spectacular adventures .
what do you think , olivia ?
well , i think it was more a matter of simply trying out his idea , to see if migration from the east was possible .
yes , thats probably it .
and the poor guy suffered a bit at that time because the war forced him to stop his work for some years .
when he got started again and planned his epic voyage , do you think it was important to him that he achieve it before anyone else did ?
i havent read anywhere that that was his motivation .
the most important factor seems to have been that he use only ancient techniques and local materials to build his raft .
i wonder how fast it went .
well , it took them 97 days from south america to the pacific islands .
and after that , hayerdahl went to easter island , didnt he ?
we should mention the purpose of that trip .
i think he sailed there in a boat made out of reeds .
no , that was later on in egypt , olivia .
but what he wanted to do was talk to the local people about their old stone carvings and then make one himself to learn more about the process .
well , what a great life .
even though many of his theories have been disproven , he certainly left a lasting impression on many disciplines , didnt he ?
to my mind , he was the first person to establish what modern academics call practical archaeology .
i mean , that they try to recreate something from the past today , like he did with his raft trip .
its unfortunate that his ideas about where polynessians originated from have been completely discredited .
right , well , i will prepare a powerpoint slide at the end that acknowledges our sources .
i mainly used the life and work of thor heyerdahl by william oliver .
i thought the research methods he used were very sound , although i must say i found the overall tone somewhat old fashioned .
i think they need to do a new , revised edition .
yeah , i agree .
what about the subject matter i found it really challenging !
well , its a complex issue .
i thought the book had lots of good points .
what did you think of .
the fact that people go to the louvre museum in paris to see the original painting mona lisa when they can see a reproduction anywhere leads us to question some assumptions about the role of museums of fine art in todays world .
one of the most famous works of art in the world is leonardo da vincis mona lisa .
nearly everyone who goes to see the original will already be familiar with it from reproductions , but they accept that fine art is more rewardingly viewed in its original form .
however , if mona lisa was a famous novel , few people would bother to go to a museum to read the writers actual manuscript rather than a printed reproduction .
this might be explained by the fact that the novel has evolved precisely because of technological developments that made it possible to print out huge numbers of texts , whereas oil paintings have always been produced as unique objects .
in addition , it could be argued that the practice of interpreting or reading each medium follows different conventions .
with novels , the reader attends mainly to the meaning of words rather than the way they are printed on the page , whereas the reader of a painting must attend just as closely to the material form of marks and shapes in the picture as to any ideas they may signify .
yet it has always been possible to make very accurate facsimiles of pretty well any fine art work .
the seven surviving versions of mona lisa bear witness to the fact that in the 16th century , artists seemed perfectly content to assign the reproduction of their creations to their workshop apprentices as regular bread and butter work .
and today the task of reproducing pictures is incomparably more simple and reliable , with reprographic techniques that allow the production of high quality prints made exactly to the original scale , with faithful colour values , and even with duplication of the surface relief of the painting .
but despite an implicit recognition that the spread of good reproductions can be culturally valuable , museums continue to promote the special status of original work .
unfortunately , this seems to place severe limitations on the kind of experience offered to visitors .
one limitation is related to the way the museum presents its exhibits .
as repositories of unique historical objects , art museums are often called treasure houses .
we are reminded of this even before we view a collection by the presence of security guards , attendants , ropes and display cases to keep us away from the exhibits .
in many cases , the architectural style of the building further reinforces that notion .
in addition , a major collection like that of londons national gallery is housed in numerous rooms , each with dozens of works , any one of which is likely to be worth more than all the average visitor possesses .
in a society that judges the personal status of the individual so much by their material worth , it is therefore difficult not to be impressed by ones own relative worthlessness in such an environment .
furthermore , consideration of the value of the original work in its treasure house setting impresses upon the viewer that , since these works were originally produced , they have been assigned a huge monetary value by some person or institution more powerful than themselves .
evidently , nothing the viewer thinks about the work is going to alter that value , and so todays viewer is deterred from trying to extend that spontaneous , immediate , self reliant kind of reading which would originally have met the work .
the visitor may then be struck by the strangeness of seeing such diverse paintings , drawings and sculptures brought together in an environment for which they were not originally created .
this displacement effect is further heightened by the sheer volume of exhibits .
in the case of a major collection , there are probably more works on display than we could realistically view in weeks or even months .
this is particularly distressing because time seems to be a vital factor in the appreciation of all art forms .
a fundamental difference between paintings and other art forms is that there is no prescribed time over which a painting is viewed .
by contrast , the audience encourage an opera or a play over a specific time , which is the duration of the performance .
similarly novels and poems are read in a prescribed temporal sequence , whereas a picture has no clear place at which to start viewing , or at which to finish .
thus art works themselves encourage us to view them superficially , without appreciating the richness of detail and labour that is involved .
consequently , the dominant critical approach becomes that of the art historian , a specialised academic approach devoted to discovering the meaning of art within the cultural context of its time .
this is in perfect harmony with the museums function , since the approach is dedicated to seeking out and conserving authentic , original , readings of the exhibits .
again , this seems to put paid to that spontaneous , participators criticism which can be found in abundance in criticism of classic works of literature , but is absent from most art history .
the displays of art museums serve as a warning of what critical practices can emerge when spontaneous criticism is suppressed .
the museum public , like any other audience , experience art more rewardingly when given the confidence to express their views .
if appropriate works of fine art could be rendered permanently accessible to the public by means of high fidelity reproductions , as literature and music already are , the public may feel somewhat less in awe of them .
unfortunately , that may be too much to ask from those who seek to maintain and control the art establishment .
well , i have been talking to managers in a number of businesses , and reading surveys about the future of management .
and what i am going to present in this seminar is a few ideas about how the activity is likely to change in the next ten years .
it isnt a scientific , statistical analysis just some ideas for us to discuss .
one area i want to mention is business markets , and i am sure a really significant development will be a major increase in competition , with companies from all round the world trying to sell similar products .
consumers will have much more choice for instance , food products sold in australia might be manufactured in the usa , china , finland and dozens of other countries .
throughout the course of history , people have travelled for purposes of trade , religious conviction , economic gain , war , migration and other equally compelling motivations .
in the roman era , wealthy aristocrats and high government officials also travelled for pleasure .
seaside resorts located at pompeii and herculaneum afforded citizens the opportunity to escape to their vacation villas in order to avoid the summer heat of rome .
travel , except during the dark ages , has continued to grow and , throughout recorded history , has played a vital role in the development of civilisations and their economies .
the development of mass tourism .
the purpose of dolphin conservation trust is to protect dolphins in seas all around the world .
it tries to raise peoples awareness of the problems these marine creatures are suffering because of pollution and other threats .
it started ten years ago and its one of the fastest growing animal charities in the country although its still fairly small compared with the big players in animal protection .
we are particularly proud of the work we do in education last year we visited a huge number of schools in different parts of the country , going round to talk to children and young people aged from five to eighteen .
in fact , about thirty five percent of our members are children .
the charity uses its money to support campaigns for example , for changes in fishing policy and so forth .
it hopes soon to be able to employ its first full time biologist with dolphins expertise to monitor populations .
of course , many people give their services on a voluntary basis and we now have volunteers working in observation , office work and other things .
i should also tell you about the award we won from the charity commission last year for our work in education .
although its not meant an enormous amount of money for us , it has made our activities even more widely publicised and understood .
in the long term it may not bring in extra members but we are hoping it will have this effect .
is it possible to see dolphins in uk waters ?
in several locations .
and we have a big project in the east part of scotland .
this has long been a haven for dolphins because it has very little shipping .
however , that may be about to change soon because oil companies want to increase exploration there .
we are campaigning against this because , although there will be little pollution from oil , exploration creates a lot of underwater noise .
it means the dolphins cant rest and socialise .
this is how i became interested in dolphin conservation in the first place .
i had never seen one and i hadnt been particularly interested in them at school .
then i came across this story about a family of dolphins who had to leave their home in the moray firth because of the oil companies and about a child who campaigned to save them .
i couldnt put the book down i was hooked .
i am sure our listeners will want to find out what they can do to help .
you mentioned the adopt a dolphin scheme .
can you tell us about that ?
of course !
people can choose one of our dolphins to sponsor .
they receive a picture of it and news updates .
moondancer , echo , kiwi and samson .
unfortunately , echo is being rather elusive this year and hasnt vet been sighted by our observers but we remain optimistic that he will be out there soon .
all the others have been out in force samson and moondancer are often photographed together but it is kiwi whos our real character as she seems to love coming up close for the cameras and we have captured her on film hundreds of times .
they all have their own personalities moondancer is very elegant and curves out and into the water very smoothly , whereas samson has a lot of energy hes always leaping out of the water with great vigour .
youd probably expect him to be the youngest hes not quite thats kiwi but samsons the latest of our dolphins to be chosen for the scheme .
kiwi makes a lot of noise so we can often pick her out straight away .
echo and moondancer are noisy too , but moondancers easy to find because she has a particularly large fin on her back , which makes her easy to identify .
summer leaves are green because they are full of chlorophyll , the molecule that captures sunlight converts that energy into new building materials for the tree .
as fall approaches in the northern hemisphere , the amount of solar energy available declines considerably .
for many trees evergreen conifers being an exception the best strategy is to abandon photosynthesis until the spring .
so rather than maintaining the now redundant leaves throughout the winter , the tree saves its precious resources and discards them .
but before letting its leaves go , the tree dismantles their chlorophyll molecules and ships their valuable nitrogen back into the twigs .
as chlorophyll is depleted , other colours that have been dominated by it throughout the summer begin to be revealed .
this unmasking explains the autumn colours of yellow and orange , but not the brilliant reds and purples of trees such as the maple or sumac .
it is created by anthocyanins , water soluble plant pigments reflecting the red to blue range of the visible spectrum .
they belong to a class of sugar based chemical compounds also known as flavonoids .
whats puzzling is that anthocyanins are actually newly minted , made in the leaves at the same time as the tree is preparing to drop them .
but it is hard to make sense of the manufacture of anthocyanins why should a tree bother making new chemicals in its leaves when its already scrambling to withdraw and preserve the ones already there ?
some theories about anthocyanins have argued that they might act as a chemical defence against attacks by insects or fungi , or that they might attract fruit eating birds or increase a leafs tolerance to freezing .
however there are problems with each of these theories , including the fact that leaves are red for such a relatively short period that the expense of energy needed to manufacture the anthocyanins would outweigh any anti fungal or anti herbivore activity achieved .
it has also been proposed that trees may produce vivid red colours to convince herbivorous insects that they are healthy and robust and would be easily able to mount chemical defences against infestation .
if insects paid attention to such advertisements , they might be prompted to lay their eggs on a duller , and presumably less resistant host .
the flaw in this theory lies in the lack of proof to support it .
no one has as yet ascertained whether more robust trees sport the brightest leaves , or whether insects make choices according to colour intensity .
perhaps the most plausible suggestion as to why leaves would go to the trouble of making anthocyanins when they are busy packing up for the winter is the theory known as the light screen hypothesis .
it sounds paradoxical , because the idea behind this hypothesis is that the red pigment is made in autumn leaves to protect chlorophyll , the light absorbing chemical , from too much light .
why does chlorophyll need protection when it is the natural worlds supreme light absorber ?
why protect chlorophyll at a time when the tree is breaking it down to salvage as much of it as possible ?
chlorophyll , although exquisitely evolved to capture the energy of sunlight , can sometimes be overwhelmed by it , especially in situations of drought , low temperatures , or nutrient deficiency .
moreover , the problem of oversensitivity to light is even more acute in the fall , when the leaf is busy preparing for winter by dismantling its internal machinery .
the energy absorbed by the chlorophyll molecules of the unstable autumn leaf is not immediately channelled into useful products and processes , as it would be in an intact summer leaf .
the weakened fall leaf then becomes vulnerable to the highly destructive effects of the oxygen created by the excited chlorophyll molecules .
even if you had never suspected that this is what was going on when leaves turn red , there are clues out there .
on many trees , the leaves that are the reddest are those on the side of the tree which gets most sun .
not only that , but the red is brighter on the upper side of the leaf .
it has also been recognised for decades that the best conditions for intense red colours are dry , sunny days and coo nights , conditions that nicely match those that make leaves susceptible to excess light .
and finally , trees such as maples usually get much redder the more north you travel in the northern hemisphere .
its colder there , they are more stressed , their chlorophyll is more sensitive and it needs more sunblock .
what is still not fully understood , however , is why some trees resort to producing red pigments while others dont bother , and simply reveal their orange or yellow hues .
do these trees have other means at their disposal to prevent overexposure to light in autumn ?
their story , though not as spectacular to the eye , will surely turn out to be as subtle and as complex .
hows the course going ?
oh , hi , mia .
i cant believe the first terms nearly over .
i saw your groups performance last night at the student theatre .
yeah but now we have to write a report on the whole thing , an in depth analysis .
i dont know where to start .
like , i have to write about the role i played , the doctor , how i developed the character .
well , what was your starting point ?
er my grandfather was a doctor before he retired , and i just based it on him .
did you talk to him about it ?
he must have all sorts of stories , but he never says much about his work , even now .
he has a sort of authority though .
so how did you manage to capture that ?
id id visualize what he must have been like in the past , when he was sitting in his consulting room listening to his patients .
ok , so thats what you explain in your report .
then theres the issue of atmosphere so in the first scene we needed to know how boring life was in the doctors village in the 1950s , so when the curtain went up on the first scene in the waiting room , there was that long silence before anyone spoke .
and then people kept saying the same thing over and over , like cold , isnt it ?
yes , and everyone wore grey and brown , and just sat in a row .
yes , all those details of the production .
and i have to analyse how i functioned in the group what i found out about myself .
i know i was so frustrated at times , when we couldnt agree .
so did one person emerge as the leader ?
that was ok she helped us work out exactly what to do , for the production .
and that made me feel better , i suppose .
when you understood what needed doing ?
and sophia did some research , too .
that was useful in developing our approach .
well , she found these articles from the 1950s about how relationships between children and their parents , or between the public and people like bank managers or the police were shifting .
and did you have any practical problems to overcome ?
well , in the final rehearsal everything was going fine until the last scene thats where the doctors first patient appears on stage on his own .
the one in the wheelchair ?
yes , and he had this really long speech , with the stage all dark except for one spotlight and then that stuck somehow so it was shining on the wrong side of the stage but anyway we got that fixed , thank goodness .
yes , it was fine on the night .
but while you are here , mia , i wanted to ask you about the year abroad option .
would you recommend doing that ?
yes , definitely .
its a fantastic chance to study in another country for a year .
i think id like to do it , but it looks very competitive theres only a limited number of places .
then about six months before you go , you have to email the scheme coordinator with your top three choices .
i had a friend who missed the deadline and didnt get her first choice , so you do need to get a move on at that stage .
you will find that certain places are very popular with everyone .
and dont you have to write a personal statement at that stage ?
i will get some of the final year students to give me some tips maybe see if i can read what they wrote .
i think thats a very good idea .
i dont mind showing you what i did .
and while you are abroad dont make the mistake i made .
i got so involved i forgot all about making arrangements for when i came back here for the final year .
make sure you stay in touch so they know your choices for the optional modules .
you dont want to miss out doing your preferred specialisms .
ancient voyagers who settled the far flung islands of the pacific ocean .
an important archaeological discovery on the island of efate in the pacific archipelago of vanuatu has revealed traces of an ancient seafaring people , the distant ancestors of todays , polynesians .
the site came to light only by chance .
an agricultural worker , digging in the grounds of a derelict plantation , scraped open a grave the first of dozens in a burial ground some 3 , 000 years old .
it is the oldest cemetery ever found in the pacific islands , and it harbors the remains of an ancient people archaeologists call the lapita .
today , i want to talk about self regulatory focus theory and how the actions of leaders can affect the way followers approach different situations .
self regulatory focus theory is a theory developed by tori higgins .
he says that a persons focus at any given time is to either approach pleasure or avoid pain .
these are two basic motivations that each and every one of us has , and they cause us to have different kinds of goals .
promotion goals in different life situations emphasis achievement .
drought , housing expansion , and oversupply of tinder make for bigger , hotter fires in the western united states .
wildfires are becoming an increasing menace in the western united states , with southern california being the hardest hit area .
theres a reason fire squads battling more frequent blazes in southern california are having such difficulty containing the flames , despite better preparedness than ever and decades of experience fighting fires fanned by the santa ana winds .
the wildfires themselves , experts say , are generally hotter , faster , and spread more erratically than in the past .
megafires , also called siege fires , are the increasingly frequent blazes that burn 500 , 000 acres or more 10 times the size of the average forest fire of 20 years ago .
some recent wildfires are among the biggest ever in california in terms of acreage burned , according to state figures and news reports .
one explanation for the trend to more superhot fires is that the region , which usually has dry summers , has had significantly below normal precipitation in many recent years .
another reason , experts say , is related to the century long policy of the us forest service to stop wildfires as quickly as possible .
the unintentional consequence has been to halt the natural eradication of underbrush , now the primary fuel for megafires .
three other factors contribute to the trend , they add .
first is climate change , marked by a 1 degree fahrenheit rise in average yearly temperature across the western states .
second is fire seasons that on average are 78 days longer than they were 20 years ago .
third is increased construction of homes in wooded areas .
we are increasingly building our homes in fire prone ecosystems , says dominik kulakowski , adjunct professor of biology at clark university graduate school of geography in worcester , massachusetts .
doing that in many of the forests of the western us is like building homes on the side of an active volcano .
in california , where population growth has averaged more than 600 , 000 a year for at least a decade , more residential housing is being built .
what once was open space is now residential homes providing fuel to make fires burn with greater intensity , says terry mchale of the california department of forestry firefighters union .
with so much dryness , so many communities to catch fire , so many fronts to fight , it becomes an almost incredible job .
that said , many experts give california high marks for making progress on preparedness in recent years , after some of the largest fires in state history scorched thousands of acres , burned thousands of homes , and killed numerous people .
stung in the past by criticism of bungling that allowed fires to spread when they might have been contained , personnel are meeting the peculiar challenges of neighborhood and canyon hopping fires better than previously , observers say .
state promises to provide more up to date engines , planes , and helicopters to fight fires have been fulfilled .
firefighters unions that in the past complained of dilapidated equipment , old fire engines , and insufficient blueprints for fire safety are now praising the states commitment , noting that funding for firefighting has increased , despite huge cuts in many other programs .
we are pleased that the current state administration has been very proactive in its support of us , and has come through with budgetary support of the infrastructure needs we have long sought , says mr mchale of the firefighters union .
besides providing money to upgrade the fire engines that must traverse the mammoth state and wind along serpentine canyon roads , the state has invested in better command and control facilities as well as in the strategies to run them .
in the fire sieges of earlier years , we found that other jurisdictions and states were willing to offer mutual aid help , but we were not able to communicate adequately with them , says kim zagaris , chief of the states office of emergency services fire and rescue branch .
after a commission examined and revamped communications procedures , the statewide response has become far more professional and responsive , he says .
there is a sense among both government officials and residents that the speed , dedication , and coordination of firefighters from several states and jurisdictions are resulting in greater efficiency than in past siege fire situations .
in recent years , the southern california region has improved building codes , evacuation procedures , and procurement of new technology .
i am extraordinarily impressed by the improvements we have witnessed , says randy jacobs , a southern california based lawyer who has had to evacuate both his home and business to escape wildfires .
notwithstanding all the damage that will continue to be caused by wildfires , we will no longer suffer the loss of life endured in the past because of the fire prevention and firefighting measures that have been put in place , he says .
welcome to manham port , where a thousand years of history are brought to life .
visit our copper mine , see models of the machinery it used , have your photo taken in nineteenth century costume , experience at first hand how people lived at different stages throughout history , and especially how children studied , worked and played .
the port of manham is located in beautiful and peaceful countryside , on a bend in the great river avon , and developed here because its the highest navigable point of the avon boats can go no higher up this river and proved a handy place to load and unload cargo to and from the sea , which is over 23 miles away .
a small port was already established here when , about 900 years ago , tin was discovered nearby , though it wasnt until the industrial revolution , when a tremendous need for metals of all kinds developed , that manham expanded to become one of the busiest ports in the country .
and because it was already so busy , prospectors began to look other minerals , and by the end of the nineteenth century , lead , copper , manganese and arsenic were added to the cargos leaving manham .
hi , laura could you spare a few minutes to talk about the work placement you did last summer ?
i am thinking of doing one myself .
didnt you do yours at an environmental services company ?
thats right its only a very small company and they needed someone to produce a company brochure , and i wanted to get some business experience because i am interested in a career in occupational psychology in a business environment .
it was good because i had overall responsibility for the project .
what kind of skills do you think you developed on the placement ?
i mean , apart from the ones you already had did you have to do all the artwork for the brochure , the layout and everything ?
evolution isnt supposed to run backwards yet an increasing number of examples show that it does and that it can sometimes represent the future of a species .
the description of any animal as an evolutionary throwback is controversial .
for the better part of a century , most biologists have been reluctant to use those words , mindful of a principle of evolution that says evolution can not run backwards .
but as more and more examples come to light and modern genetics enters the scene , that principle is having to be rewritten .
not only are evolutionary throwbacks possible , they sometimes play an important role in the forward march of evolution .
today we are going to look at an important area of science , namely nanotechnology .
so what is it ?
nano means tiny , so its science and engineering on the scale of atoms and molecules .
the idea is that by controlling and rearranging atoms , you can literally create anything .
however , as we will see , the science of the small has some big implications affecting us in many ways .
theres no doubt that nanotechnology promises so much for civilisation .
by the year 2050 , nearly 80 of the earths population will live in urban centres .
applying the most conservative estimates to current demographic trends , the human population will increase by about three billion people by then .
an estimated 109 hectares of new land about 20 larger than brazil will be needed to grow enough food to feed them , if traditional farming methods continue as they are practised today .
at present , throughout the world , over 80 of the land that is suitable for raising crops is in use .
historically , some 15 of that has been laid waste by poor management practices .
what can be done to ensure enough food for the worlds population to live on ?
the concept of indoor farming is not new , since hothouse production of tomatoes and other produce has been in vogue for some time .
what is new is the urgent need to scale up this technology to accommodate another three billion people .
many believe an entirely new approach to indoor farming is required , employing cutting edge technologies .
one such proposal is for the vertical farm .
the concept is of multi storey buildings in which food crops are grown in environmentally controlled conditions .
situated in the heart of urban centres , they would drastically reduce the amount of transportation required to bring food to consumers .
vertical farms would need to be efficient , cheap to construct and safe to operate .
if successfully implemented , proponents claim , vertical farms offer the promise of urban renewal , sustainable production of a safe and varied food supply through year round production of all crops , and the eventual repair of ecosystems that have been sacrificed for horizontal farming .
it took humans 10 , 000 years to learn how to grow most of the crops we now take for granted .
along the way , we despoiled most of the land we worked , often turning verdant , natural ecozones into semi arid deserts .
within that same time frame , we evolved into an urban species , in which 60 of the human population now lives vertically in cities .
this means that , for the majority , we humans have shelter from the elements , yet we subject our food bearing plants to the rigours of the great outdoors and can do no more than hope for a good weather year .
however , more often than not now , due to a rapidly changing climate , that is not what happens .
massive floods , long droughts , hurricanes and severe monsoons take their toll each year , destroying millions of tons of valuable crops .
the supporters of vertical farming claim many potential advantages for the system .
for instance , crops would be produced all year round , as they would be kept in artificially controlled , optimum growing conditions .
there would be no weather related crop failures due to droughts , floods or pests .
all the food could be grown organically , eliminating the need for herbicides , pesticides and fertilisers .
the system would greatly reduce the incidence of many infectious diseases that are acquired at the agricultural interface .
although the system would consume energy , it would return energy to the grid via methane generation from composting non edible parts of plants .
it would also dramatically reduce fossil fuel use , by cutting out the need for tractors , ploughs and shipping .
a major drawback of vertical farming , however , is that the plants would require artificial light .
without it , those plants nearest the windows would be exposed to more sunlight and grow more quickly , reducing the efficiency of the system .
single storey greenhouses have the benefit of natural overhead light .
even so , many still need artificial lighting .
a multi storey facility with no natural overhead light would require far more .
generating enough light could be prohibitively expensive , unless cheap , renewable energy is available , and this appears to be rather a future aspiration than a likelihood for the near future .
one variation on vertical farming that has been developed is to grow plants in stacked trays that move on rails .
moving the trays allows the plants to get enough sunlight .
it is not certain , however , that it can be made to work without that overhead natural light .
vertical farming is an attempt to address the undoubted problems that we face in producing enough food for a growing population .
at the moment , though , more needs to be done to reduce the detrimental impact it would have on the environment , particularly as regards the use of energy .
while it is possible that much of our food will be grown in skyscrapers in future , most experts currently believe it is far more likely that we will simply use the space available on urban rooftops .
welcome to the fiddy working heritage farm .
this open air museum gives you the experience of agriculture and rural life in the english countryside at the end of the nineteenth century .
so you will see a typical farm of that period , and like me , all the staff are dressed in clothes of that time .
i must give you some advice and safety tips before we go any further .
as its a working farm , please dont frighten or injure the animals .
the falkirk wheel in scotland is the worlds first and only rotating boat lift .
opened in 2002 , it is central to the ambitious 84 , 5m millennium link project to restore navigability across scotland by reconnecting the historic waterways of the forth clyde and union canals .
the major challenge of the project lays in the fact that the forth clyde canal is situated 35 metres below the level of the union canal .
historically , the two canals had been joined near the town of falkirk by a sequence of 11 locks enclosed sections of canal in which the water level could be raised or lowered that stepped down across a distance of 1 , 5 km .
this had been dismantled in 1933 , thereby breaking the link .
so i finally managed to read the article you mentioned the one about the study on gender in physics .
about the study of college students done by akira miyake and his team ?
i was interested that the researchers were actually a mix of psychologists and physicists .
thats an unusual combination .
i got a little confused at first about which students the study was based on .
mark rowe reports on the increasingly ambitious geo engineering projects being explored by scientists .
such is our dependence on fossil fuels , and such is the volume of carbon dioxide already released into the atmosphere , that many experts agree that significant global warming is now inevitable .
they believe that the best we can do is keep it at a reasonable level , and at present the only serious option for doing this is cutting back on our carbon emissions .
but while a few countries are making major strides in this regard , the majority are having great difficulty even stemming the rate of increase , let alone reversing it .
consequently , an increasing number of scientists are beginning to explore the alternative of geo engineering a term which generally refers to the intentional large scale manipulation of the environment .
if plan a reducing our dependency on fossil fuels fails , we require a plan b , employing grand schemes to slow down or reverse the process of global warming .
geo engineering has been shown to work , at least on a small localised scale .
for decades , mayday parades in moscow have taken place under clear blue skies , aircraft having deposited dry ice , silver iodide and cement powder to disperse clouds .
many of the schemes now suggested look to do the opposite , and reduce the amount of sunlight reaching the planet .
the most eye catching idea of all is suggested by professor roger angel of the university of arizona .
his scheme would employ up to 16 trillion minute spacecraft , each weighing about one gram , to form a transparent , sunlight refracting sunshade in an orbit 1.5 million km above the earth .
this could , argues angel , reduce the amount of light reaching the earth by two per cent .
the majority of geo engineering projects so far carried out which include planting forests in deserts and depositing iron in the ocean to stimulate the growth of algae have focused on achieving a general cooling of the earth .
but some look specifically at reversing the melting at the poles , particularly the arctic .
the reasoning is that if you replenish the ice sheets and frozen waters of the high latitudes , more light will be reflected back into space , so reducing the warming of the oceans and atmosphere .
the concept of releasing aerosol sprays into the stratosphere above the arctic has been proposed by several scientists .
this would involve using sulphur or hydrogen sulphide aerosols so that sulphur dioxide would form clouds , which would , in turn , lead to a global dimming .
the idea is modelled on historic volcanic explosions , such as that of mount pinatubo in the philippines in 1991 , which led to a short term cooling of global temperatures by 0 .
scientists have also scrutinised whether its possible to preserve the ice sheets of greenland with reinforced high tension cables , preventing icebergs from moving into the sea .
meanwhile in the russian arctic , geo engineering plans include the planting of millions of birch trees .
whereas the regions native evergreen pines shade the snow an absorb radiation , birches would shed their leaves in winter , thus enabling radiation to be reflected by the snow .
re routing russian rivers to increase cold water flow to ice forming areas could also be used to slow down warming , say some climate scientists .
but will such schemes ever be implemented ?
generally speaking , those who are most cautious about geo engineering are the scientists involved in the research .
the only permanent solution .
i think all of us agree that if we were to end geo engineering on a given day , then the planet would return to its pre engineered condition very rapidly , and probably within ten to twenty years .
thats certainly something to worry about .
the us national center for atmospheric research has already suggested that the proposal to inject sulphur into the atmosphere might affect rainfall patterns across the tropics and the southern ocean .
geo engineering plans to inject stratospheric aerosols or to seed clouds would act to cool the planet , and act to increase the extent of sea ice , says rasch .
but all the models suggest some impact on the distribution of precipitation .
a further risk with geo engineering projects is that you can overshoot y says dr dan hunt , from the university of bristols school of geophysical sciences , who has studied the likely impacts of the sunshade and aerosol schemes on the climate .
you may bring global temperatures back to pre industrial levels , but the risk is that the poles will still be warmer than they should be and the tropics will be cooler than before industrialisation .
to avoid such a scenario , hunt says , angels project would have to operate at half strength .
all of which reinforces his view that the best option is to avoid the need for geo engineering altogether .
the main reason why geo engineering is supported by many in the scientific community is that most researchers have little faith in the ability of politicians to agree and then bring in the necessary carbon cuts .
even leading conservation organisations see the value of investigating the potential of geo engineering .
according to dr martin sommerkorn , climate change advisor for the world wildlife funds international arctic programme , human induced climate change has brought humanity to a position where we shouldnt exclude thinking thoroughly about this topic and its possibilities .
i have been looking at ocean biodiversity , thats the diversity of species that live in the worlds oceans .
about 20 years ago biologists developed the idea of what they called biodiversity hotspots .
these are the areas which have the greatest mixture of species , so one example is madagascar .
these hotspots are significant because they allow us to locate key areas for focusing efforts at conservation .
biologists can identify hotspots on land , fairly easily , but until recently , very little was known about species distribution and diversity in the oceans , and no one even knew if hotspots existed there .
caroline speaking .
i am interested in standing for election to the youth council , and i was told to give you a call .
could i have your name , please ?
yes , its roger brown .
i am caroline , the youth council administrator .
so do you know much about what the council does , right ?
i have talked to stephanie i think shes the chair of the council .
how a sixteenth century warship was recovered from the seabed .
on 19 july 1545 , english and french fleets were engaged in a sea battle off the coast of southern england in the area of water called the solent , between portsmouth and the isle of wight .
among the english vessels was a warship by the name of mary rose .
built in portsmouth some 35 years earlier , she had had a long and successful fighting career , and was a favourite of king henry viii .
while witnesses agree that she was not hit by the french , some maintain that she was outdated , overladen and sailing too low in the water , others that she was mishandled by undisciplined crew .
what is undisputed , however , is that the mary rose sank into the solent that day , taking at least 500 men with her .
after the battle , attempts were made to recover the ship , but these failed .
the mary rose came to rest on the seabed , lying on her starboard right side at an angle of approximately 60 degrees .
the hull the body of the ship acted as a trap for the sand and mud carried by solent currents .
as a result , the starboard side filled rapidly , leaving the exposed port left side to be eroded by marine organisms and mechanical degradation .
because of the way the ship sank , nearly all of the starboard half survived intact .
during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries , the entire site became covered with a layer of hard grey clay , which minimised further erosion .
then , on 16 june 1836 , some fishermen in the solent found that their equipment was caught on an underwater obstruction , which turned out to be the mary rose .
diver john deane happened to be exploring another sunken ship nearby , and the fishermen approached him , asking him to free their gear .
deane dived down , and found the equipment caught on a timber protruding slightly from the seabed .
exploring further , he uncovered several other timbers and a bronze gun .
deane continued diving on the site intermittently until 1840 , recovering several more guns , two bows , various timbers , part of a pump and various other small finds .
the mary rose then faded into obscurity for another hundred years .
but in 1965 , military historian and amateur diver alexander mckee , in conjunction with the british sub aqua club , initiated a project called solent ships .
while on paper this was a plan to examine a number of known wrecks in the solent , what mckee really hoped for was to find the mary rose .
ordinary search techniques proved unsatisfactory , so mckee entered into collaboration with harold e edgerton , professor of electrical engineering at the massachusetts institute of technology .
in 1967 , edgertons side scan sonar systems revealed a large , unusually shaped object , which mckee believed was the mary rose .
further excavations revealed stray pieces of timber and an iron gun .
but the climax to the operation came when , on 5 may 1971 , part of the ships frame was uncovered .
mckee and his team now knew for certain that they had found the wreck , but were as yet unaware that it also housed a treasure trove of beautifully preserved artefacts .
interest in the project grew , and in 1979 , the mary rose trust was formed , with prince charles as its president and dr margaret rule its archaeological director .
the decision whether or not to salvage the wreck was not an easy one , although an excavation in 1978 had shown that it might be possible to raise the hull .
while the original aim was to raise the hull if at all feasible , the operation was not given the go ahead until january 1982 , when all the necessary information was available .
an important factor in trying to salvage the mary rose was that the remaining hull was an open shell .
namely to carry out the lifting operation in three very distinct stages .
the hull was attached to a lifting frame via a network of bolts and lifting wires .
the problem of the hull being sucked back downwards into the mud was overcome by using 12 hydraulic jacks .
these raised it a few centimetres over a period of several days , as the lifting frame rose slowly up its four legs .
it was only when the hull was hanging freely from the lifting frame , clear of the seabed and the suction effect of the surrounding mud , that the salvage operation progressed to the second stage .
in this stage , the lifting frame was fixed to a hook attached to a crane , and the hull was lifted completely clear of the seabed and transferred underwater into the lifting cradle .
this required precise positioning to locate the legs into the stabbing guides of the lifting cradle .
the lifting cradle was designed to fit the hull jusing archaeological survey drawings , and was fitted with air bags to provide additional cushioning for the hulls delicate timber framework .
the third and final stage was to lift the entire structure into the air , by which time the hull was also supported from below .
finally , on 11 october 1982 , millions of people around the world held their breath as the timber skeleton of the mary rose was lifted clear of the water , ready to be returned home to portsmouth .
i am jody , and i will be looking after both of you for the first month you are working here at the amersham theatre .
i will tell you something about the theatre now , then take you to meet two of the other staff .
its an old building , and its been modernised several times .
in fact , as you can see , we are carrying out a major refurbishment at the moment .
the interior has just been repainted , and we are about to start on the exterior of the building that will be a big job .
easter island , or rapu nui as it is known locally , is home to several hundred ancient human statues the moai .
after this remote pacific island was settled by the polynesians , it remained isolated for centuries .
all the energy and resources that went into the moai some of which are ten metres tall and weigh over 7 , 000 kilos came from the island itself .
yet when dutch explorers landed in 1722 , they met a stone age culture .
the moai were carved with stone tools , then transported for many kilometres , without the use of animals or wheels , to massive stone platforms .
the identity of the moai builders was in doubt until well into the twentieth century .
thor heyerdahl , the norwegian ethnographer and adventurer , thought the statues had been created by pre inca peoples from peru .
bestselling swiss author erich von daniken believed they were built by stranded extraterrestrials .
modern science linguistic , archaeological and genetic evidence has definitively proved the moai builders were polynesians , but not how they moved their creations .
local folklore maintains that the statues walked , while researchers have tended to assume the ancestors dragged the statues somehow , using ropes and logs .
when the europeans arrived , rapa nui was grassland , with only a few scrawny trees .
in the 1970s and 1980s , though , researchers found pollen preserved in lake sediments , which proved the island had been covered in lush palm forests for thousands of years .
only after the polynesians arrived did those forests disappear .
us scientist jared diamond believes that the rapanui people descendants of polynesian settlers wrecked their own environment .
they had unfortunately settled on an extremely fragile island dry , cool , and too remote to be properly fertilised by windblown volcanic ash .
when the islanders cleared the forests for firewood and farming , the forests didnt grow back .
as trees became scarce and they could no longer construct wooden canoes for fishing , they ate birds .
soil erosion decreased their crop yields .
before europeans arrived , the rapanui had descended into civil war and cannibalism , he maintains .
the collapse of their isolated civilisation , diamond writes , is a worst case scenario for what may lie ahead of us in our own future .
the moai , he thinks , accelerated the self destruction .
diamond interprets them as power displays by rival chieftains who , trapped on a remote little island , lacked other ways of asserting their dominance .
they competed by building ever bigger figures .
diamond thinks they laid the moai on wooden sledges , hauled over log rails , but that required both a lot of wood and a lot of people .
to feed the people , even more land had to be cleared .
when the wood was gone and civil war began , the islanders began toppling the moai .
by the nineteenth century none were standing .
archaeologists terry hunt of the university of hawaii and carl lipo of california state university agree that easter island lost its lush forests and that it was an ecological catastrophe but they believe the islanders themselves werent to blame .
and the moai certainly werent .
archaeological excavations indicate that the rapanui went to heroic efforts to protect the resources of their wind lashed , infertile fields .
they built thousands of circular stone windbreaks and gardened inside them , and used broken volcanic rocks to keep the soil moist .
in short , hunt and lipo argue , the prehistoric rapanui were pioneers of sustainable farming .
hunt and lipo contend that moai building was an activity that helped keep the peace between islanders .
they also believe that moving the moai required few people and no wood , because they were walked upright .
on that issue , hunt and lipo say , archaeological evidence backs up rapanui folklore .
recent experiments indicate that as few as 18 people could , with three strong ropes and a bit of practice , easily manoeuvre a 1 , 000 kg moai replica a few hundred metres .
the figures fat bellies tilted them forward , and ad shaped base allowed handlers to roll and rock them side to side .
moreover , hunt and lipo are convinced that the settlers were not wholly responsible for the loss of the islands trees .
archaeological finds of nuts from the extinct easter island palm show tiny grooves , made by the teeth of polynesian rats .
the rats arrived along with the settlers , and in just a few years , hunt and lipo calculate , they would have overrun the island .
they would have prevented the reseeding of the slow growing palm trees and thereby doomed rapa nuis forest , even without the settlers campaign of deforestation .
no doubt the rats ate birds eggs too .
hunt and lipo also see no evidence that rapanui civilisation collapsed when the palm forest did .
they think its population grew rapidly and then remained more or less stable until the arrival of the europeans , who introduced deadly diseases to which islanders had no immunity .
then in the nineteenth century slave traders decimated the population , which shrivelled to 111 people by 1877 .
hunt and lipos vision , therefore , is one of an island populated by peaceful and ingenious moai builders and careful stewards of the land , rather than by reckless destroyers ruining their own environment and society .
rather than a case of abject failure , rapu nui is an unlikely story of success , they claim .
whichever is the case , there are surely some valuable lessons which the world at large can learn from the story of rapa nui .
i have brought my notes on our biology field trip to rocky bay , colin , so we can work on our report on the research we did together .
i have got mine too .
lets look at the aims of the trip first .
what did you have ?
i just put something about getting experience of the different sorts of procedures used on a field trip .
an emerging discipline called neuroaesthetics is seeking to bring scientific objectivity to the study of art , and has already given us a better understanding of many masterpieces .
the blurred imagery of impressionist paintings seems to stimulate the brains amygdala , for instance .
since the amygdala plays a crucial role in our feelings , that finding might explain why many people find these pieces so moving .
could the same approach also shed light on abstract twentieth century pieces , from mondrians geometrical blocks of colour , to pollocks seemingly haphazard arrangements of splashed paint on canvas ?
sceptics believe that people claim to like such works simply because they are famous .
we certainly do have an inclination to follow the crowd .
when asked to make simple perceptual decisions such as matching a shape to its rotated image , for example , people often choose a definitively wrong answer if they see others doing the same .
it is easy to imagine that this mentality would have even more impact on a fuzzy concept like art appreciation , where there is no right or wrong answer .
angelina hawley dolan , of boston college , massachusetts , responded to this debate by asking volunteers to view pairs of paintings either the creations of famous abstract artists or the doodles of infants , chimps and elephants .
they then had to judge which they preferred .
a third of the paintings were given no captions , while many were labelled incorrectly volunteers might think they were viewing a chimps messy brushstrokes when they were actually seeing an acclaimed masterpiece .
in each set of trials , volunteers generally preferred the work of renowned artists , even when they believed it was by an animal or a child .
it seems that the viewer can sense the artists vision in paintings , even if they cant explain why .
robert pepperell , an artist based at cardiff university , creates ambiguous works that are neither entirely abstract nor clearly representational .
in one study , pepperell and his collaborators asked volunteers to decide how powerful they considered an artwork to be , and whether they saw anything familiar in the piece .
the longer they took to answer these questions , the more highly they rated the piece under scrutiny , and the greater their neural activity .
it would seem that the brain sees these images as puzzles , and the harder it is to decipher the meaning , the more rewarding is the moment of recognition .
and what about artists such as mondrian , whose paintings consist exclusively of horizontal and vertical lines encasing blocks of colour ?
mondrians works are deceptively simple , but eye tracking studies confirm that they are meticulously composed , and that simply rotating a piece radically changes the way we view it .
with the originals , volunteerseyes tended to stay longer on certain places in the image , but with the altered versions they would flit across a piece more rapidly .
as a result , the volunteers considered the altered versions less pleasurable when they later rated the work .
in a similar study , oshin vartanian of toronto university asked volunteers to compare original paintings with ones which he had altered by moving objects around within the frame .
he found that almost everyone preferred the original , whether it was a van gogh still life or an abstract by miro .
vartanian also found that changing the composition of the paintings reduced activation in those brain areas linked with meaning and interpretation .
in another experiment , alex forsythe of the university of liverpool analysed the visual intricacy of different pieces of art , and her results suggest that many artists use a key level of detail to please the brain .
too little and the work is boring , but too much results in a kind of perceptual overload , according to forsythe .
whats more , appealing pieces both abstract and representational , show signs of fractals repeated motifs recurring in different scales , fractals are common throughout nature , for example in the shapes of mountain peaks or the branches of trees .
it is possible that our visual system , which evolved in the great outdoors , finds it easier to process such patterns .
it is also intriguing that the brain appears to process movement when we see a handwritten letter , as if we are replaying the writers moment of creation .
this has led some to wonder whether pollocks works feel so dynamic because the brain reconstructs the energetic actions the artist used as he painted .
this may be down to our brains am irror neurons , which are known to mimic others actions .
the hypothesis will need to be thoroughly tested , however .
it might even be the case that we could use neuroaesthetic studies to understand the longevity of some pieces of artwork .
while the fashions of the time might shape what is currently popular , works that are best adapted to our visual system may be the most likely to linger once the trends of previous generations have been forgotten .
its still early days for the field of neuroaesthetics and these studies are probably only a taste of what is to come .
it would , however , be foolish to reduce art appreciation to a set of scientific laws .
we shouldnt underestimate the importance of the style of a particular artist , their place in history and the artistic environment of their time .
abstract art offers both a challenge and the freedom to play with different interpretations .
in some ways , its not so different to science , where we are constantly looking for systems and decoding meaning so that we can view and appreciate the world in a new way .
we have been discussing the factors the architect has to consider when designing domestic buildings .
i am going to move on now to consider the design of public buildings , and i will illustrate this by referring to the new taylor concert hall thats recently been completed here in the city .
so , as with a domestic building , when designing a public building , an architect needs to consider the function of the building for example , is it to be used primarily for entertainment , or for education , or for administration ?
the second thing the architect needs to think about is the context of the building , this includes its physical location , obviously , but it also includes , the social meaning of the building , how it relates to the people its built for .
and finally , for important public buildings , the architect may also be looking for a central symbolic idea on which to base the design , a sort of metaphor for the building and the way in which it is used .
this is burnham tourist office .
martin speaking .
i saw a poster about free things to do in the area , and it said people should phone you for information .
i am coming to burnham with my husband and two children for a few days on june the 27th , or possibly the 28th , and id like some ideas for things to do on the 29th .
yes , of course .
then lets start with a couple of events especially for children .
the art gallery is holding an event called family welcome that day , when there are activities and trails to use throughout the gallery .
that sounds interesting .
what time does it start ?
30 until 2 oclock .
the gallery stays open until 5 .
and several times during the day , they are going to show a short film that the gallery has produced .
it demonstrates how ceramics are made , and there will be equipment and materials for children to have a go themselves .
last time they ran the event , there was a film about painting , which went down very well with the children , and they are now working on one about sculpture .
i like the sound of that .
and what other events happen in burnham ?
well , do you all enjoy listening to music ?
well there are several free concerts taking place at different times one or two in the morning , the majority at lunchtime , and a couple in the evening .
and they range from pop music to latin american .
the latin american could be fun .
what time is that ?
30 , theres a longer concert , in the theatre .
right , i will suggest that to the rest of the family .
something else you might be interested in is the boat race along the river .
oh , yes , do tell me about that .
the race starts at offord marina , to the north of burnham , and goes as far as summer pool .
the best place to watch it from is charlesworth bridge , though that does get rather crowded .
and whos taking part ?
well , local boat clubs , but the standard is very high .
one of them came first in the west of england regional championship in may this year it was the first time a team from burnham has won .
it means that next year they will be representing the region in the national championship .
now i have heard something about paxton nature reserve .
its a good place for spotting unusual birds , isnt it ?
thats right throughout the year .
there is a lake there , as well as a river , and they provide a very attractive habitat .
so its a good idea to bring binoculars if you have them .
and just at the moment you can see various flowers that are pretty unusual the soil at paxton isnt very common .
they are looking good right now .
my husband will be particularly interested in that .
and theres going to be a talk and slide show about mushrooms and you will be able to go out and pick some afterwards and study the different varieties .
and is it possible for children to swim in the river ?
part of it has been fenced off to make it safe for children to swim in .
its very shallow , and theres a lifeguard on duty whenever its open .
the lake is too deep , so swimming isnt allowed there .
ok , we must remember to bring their swimming things , in case we go to paxton .
how long does it take to get there by car from burnham ?
about 20 minutes , but parking is very limited , so its usually much easier to go by bus and it takes about the same time .
well , i will discuss the options with the rest of the family .
thanks very much for all your help .
you are welcome .
the history of the worlds most luxurious fabric , from ancient china to the present day .
silk is a fine , smooth material produced from the cocoons soft protective shells that are made by mulberry silkworms insect larvae .
legend has it that it was lei tzu , wife of the yellow emperor , ruler of china in about 3000 bc , who discovered silkworms .
one account of the story goes that as she was taking a walk in her husbands gardens , she discovered that silkworms were responsible for the destruction of several mulberry trees .
she collected a number of cocoons and sat down to have a rest .
first i will briefly give you some background information , then i will be asking you for your comments on developments in the town .
well , as you dont need me to tell you , barford has changed a great deal in the last 50 years .
these are some of the main changes .
fifty years ago , buses linked virtually every part of the town and the neighbouring towns and villages .
most people used them frequently , but not now , because the bus companies concentrate on just the routes that attract most passengers .
animal migration , however it is defined , is far more than just the movement of animals .
it can loosely be described as travel that takes place at regular intervals often in an annual cycle that may involve many members of a species , and is rewarded only after a long journey .
it suggests inherited instinct .
the biologist hugh dingle has identified five characteristics that apply , in varying degrees and combinations , to all migrations .
they are prolonged movements that carry animals outside familiar habitats .
they tend to be linear , not zigzaggy .
they involve special behaviours concerning preparation such as overfeeding and arrival .
they demand special allocations of energy .
sorry i am late .
hi , jeremy , no problem .
well , wed better work out where we are on our project , i suppose .
i have looked at the drawings you have done for my story , the forest , and i think they are brilliant they really create the atmosphere i had in mind when i was writing it .
i am glad you like them .
there are just a few suggestions id like to make .
now , i am not sure about the drawing of the cave its got trees all around it , which is great , but the drawings a bit too static , isnt it ?
i think it needs some action .
yes , theres nothing happening .
perhaps i should add the boy malcolm , isnt it ?
he would be walking up to it .
yes , lets have malcolm in the drawing .
and what about putting in a tiger the one that he makes friends with a bit later ?
maybe it could be sitting under a tree washing itself .
and the tiger stops in the middle of what its doing when it sees malcolm walking past .
then theres the drawing of the crowd of the men and women dancing .
they are just outside of the forest , and theres a lot going on .
thats right , you wanted them to be watching a carnival procession , but i thought it would be too crowded .
do you think it works like this ?
yes , i like what you have done .
the only thing is , could you add malcolm to it , without changing whats already there ?
what about having him sitting on the tree trunk on the right of the picture ?
yes , that would be fine .
and do you want him watching the other people ?
no , hes been left out of all the fun , so id like him to be crying that will contrast nicely with the next picture , where hes laughing at the clowns in the carnival .
right , i will do that .
and then the drawing of the people ice skating in the forest .
i wasnt too happy with that one .
because they are supposed to be skating on grass , arent they ?
thats right , and its frozen over .
at the moment it doesnt look quite right .
i see what you mean .
i will have another go at that .
and i like the wool hats they are wearing .
maybe you could give each of them a scarf as well .
yeah , thats easy enough .
they can be streaming out behind the people to suggest they are skating really fast .
well thats all on the drawings .
so you have finished writing your story and i just need to finish illustrating it , and my story and your drawings are done .
so next thing is to decide what exactly we need to write about in the report that goes with the stories , and how we are going to divide the work .
right , helen .
what do you think about including a section on how we planned the project as a whole , jeremy ?
thats probably quite important .
well , you have had most of the good ideas so far .
how do you feel about drafting something , then we can go through it together and discuss it ?
ok , that seems reasonable .
and i could include something on how we came up with the ideas for our two stories , couldnt i ?
well i have started writing something about that , so why dont you do the same and we can include the two things .
so what about our interpretation of the stories ?
do we need to write about what we think they show , like the value of helping other people , all that sort of thing ?
thats going to come up later , isnt it ?
i think everyone in the class is going to read each others stories and come up with their own interpretations , which we are going to discuss .
oh , i missed that .
so it isnt going to be part of the report at all ?
no , but we need to write about the illustrations , because they are an essential element of childrens experience of reading the stories .
its probably easiest for you to write that section , as you know about drawing than i do .
maybe , but i find it quite hard to write about .
id be happier if you did it .
so when do you think .
occasionally , in some difficult musical compositions , there are beautiful , but easy parts parts so simple a beginner could play them .
so it is with mathematics as well .
there are some discoveries in advanced mathematics that do not depend on specialized knowledge , not even on algebra , geometry , or trigonometry .
instead they may involve , at most , a little arithmetic , such as the sum of two odd numbers is even , and common sense .
each of the eight chapters in this book illustrates this phenomenon .
anyone can understand every step in the reasoning .
the thinking in each chapter uses at most only elementary arithmetic , and sometimes not even that .
thus all readers will have the chance to participate in a mathematical experience , to appreciate the beauty of mathematics , and to become familiar with its logical , yet intuitive , style of thinking .
one of my purposes in writing this book is to give readers who havent had the opportunity to see and enjoy real mathematics the chance to appreciate the mathematical way of thinking .
i want to reveal not only some of the fascinating discoveries , but , more importantly , the reasoning behind them .
in that respect , this book differs from most books on mathematics written for the general public .
some present the lives of colorful mathematicians .
others describe important applications of mathematics .
yet others go into mathematical procedures , but assume that the reader is adept in using algebra .
the humanities and the sciences , or should i say the right brain intuitive and the left brain analytical , numerical .
as the chapters will illustrate , mathematics is not restricted to the analytical and numerical .
intuition plays a significant role .
the alleged gap can be narrowed or completely overcome by anyone , in part because each of us is far from using the full capacity of either side of the brain .
to illustrate our human potential , i cite a structural engineer who is an artist , an electrical engineer who is an opera singer , an opera singer who published mathematical research , and a mathematician who publishes short stories .
other scientists have written books to explain their fields to non scientists , but have necessarily had to omit the mathematics , although it provides the foundation of their theories .
the reader must remain a tantalized spectator rather than an involved participant , since the appropriate language for describing the details in much of science is mathematics , whether the subject is expanding universe , subatomic particles , or chromosomes .
though the broad outline of a scientific theory can be sketched intuitively , when a part of the physical universe is finally understood , its description often looks like a page in a mathematics text .
still , the non mathematical reader can go far in understanding mathematical reasoning .
this book presents the details that illustrate the mathematical style of thinking , which involves sustained , step by step analysis , experiments , and insights .
you will turn these pages much more slowly than when reading a novel or a newspaper .
it may help to have a pencil and paper ready to check claims and carry out experiments .
those who enjoyed mathematics until they were turned off by an unpleasant episode , usually around fifth grade , and mathematics aficionados , who will find much that is new throughout the book .
this book also serves readers who simply want to sharpen their analytical skills .
many careers , such as law and medicine , require extended , precise analysis .
each chapter offers practice in following a sustained and closely argued line of thought .
a physician wrote , the discipline of analytical thought processes in mathematics prepared me extremely well for medical school .
in medicine one is faced with a problem which must be thoroughly analyzed before a solution can be found .
the process is similar to doing mathematics .
a lawyer made the same point , although i had no background in law not even one political science course i did well at one of the best law schools .
i attribute much of my success there to having learned , through the study of mathematics , and , in particular , theorems , how to analyze complicated principles .
lawyers who have studied mathematics can master the legal principles in a way that most others can not .
i hope you will share my delight in watching as simple , even naive , questions lead to remarkable solutions and purely theoretical discoveries find unanticipated applications .
this is a type of research aimed at exploring the way human cultures work .
it was first developed for use in anthropology , and its also been used in sociology and communication studies .
well , businesses are finding that ethnography can offer them deeper insight into the possible needs of customers , either present or future , as well as providing valuable information about their attitudes towards existing products .
and ethnography can also help companies to design new products or services that customers really want .
lets look at some examples of how ethnographic research works in business .
stretton festival box office .
how can i help you ?
my family and i are on holiday in the area , and we have seen some posters about the festival this week .
could you tell me about some of the events , please ?
first of all , are there still tickets available for the jazz band on saturday ?
there are , but only 15 .
the 12 seats have all been sold .
the man says the tickets are available for 15 , so 15 has been written in the space .
now we shall begin .
you should answer the questions as you listen because you will not hear the recording a second time .
listen carefully and answer questions 1 to 7 .
stretton festival box office .
how can i help you ?
my family and i are on holiday in the area , and we have seen some posters about the festival this week .
could you tell me about some of the events , please ?
first of all , are there still tickets available for the jazz band on saturday ?
there are , but only 15 .
the 12 seats have all been sold .
and the venue is the school , isnt it ?
yes , that right , the secondary school .
make sure you dont go to the primary school by mistake !
and theres an additional performer who isnt mentioned on the posters carolyn hart is going to play with the band .
oh , i think i have heard her on the radio .
doesnt she play the oboe , or flute of something ?
she usually plays with symphony orchestras , and apparently this is her first time with a jazz band .
well , id certainly like to hear her .
then the next thing i want to ask about is the duck races i saw a poster beside a river .
what are they , exactly ?
well , you buy a yellow plastic duck or as many as you like they are a pound each .
and you write your name on each one .
there will be several races , depending on the number of ducks taking part .
and john stevens , a champion swimmer who lives locally , is going to start the races .
all the ducks will be launched into the river at the back of the cinema , then they will float along the rover for 500 metres , as far as the railway bridge .
and are there any prizes ?
yes , the first duck in each race to arrive at the finishing line wins its owner free tickets for the concert on the last night of the festival .
you said you can buy a duck ?
i am sure my children will both want one .
they are on sale at a stall in the market .
you cant miss it its got an enormous sign showing a couple of ducks .
i will go there this afternoon .
i remember walking past there yesterday .
to biomedical researchers all over the world , twins offer a precious opportunity to untangle the influence of genes and the environment of nature and nurture .
because identical twins come from a single fertilized egg that splits into two , they share virtually the same genetic code .
any differences between them one twin having younger looking skin , for example must be due to environmental factors such as less time spent in the sun .
alternatively , by comparing the experiences of identical twins with those of fraternal twins , who come from separate eggs and share on average half their dna , researchers can quantify the extent to which our genes affect our lives .
if identical twins are more similar to each other with respect to an ailment than fraternal twins are , then vulnerability to the disease must be rooted at least in part in heredity .
good morning , and welcome to the museum one with a remarkable range of exhibits , which i am sure you will enjoy .
my names greg , and i will tell you about the various collections as we go round .
but before we go , let me just give you a taste of what we have here .
well , for one thing , we have a fine collection of twentieth and twenty first century paintings , many by very well known artists .
i am sure you will recognise several of the paintings .
though we might think of film as an essentially visual experience , we really can not afford to underestimate the importance of film sound .
a meaningful sound track is often as complicated as the image on the screen , and is ultimately just as much the responsibility of the director .
the human voice , sound effects and music .
these three tracks must be mixed and balanced so as to produce the necessary emphases which in turn create desired effects .
topics which essentially refer to the three previously mentioned tracks are discussed below .
hi joanna , good to meet you .
now , before we discuss your new research project , id like to hear something about the psychology study you did last year for your masters degree .
so how did you choose your subjects for that ?
well , i had six subjects , all professional musicians , and all female .
three were violinists and there was also a cello player and a pianist and a flute player .
they were all very highly regarded in the music world and theyd done quite extensive tours in different continents , and quite a few had won prizes and competitions as well .
and they were quite young , werent they ?
yes , between 25 and 29 the mean was 27 .
i wasnt specifically looking for artists whod produced recordings , but this is something thats just taken for granted these days , they all had .
now you collected your data through telephone interviews , didnt you ?
i realized if i was going to interview leading musicians its only be possible over the phone because they are so busy .
i recorded them using a telephone recording adaptor .
id been worried about the quality , but it worked out all right .
i managed at least a 30 minute interview with each subject , sometimes longer .
did doing it on the phone make it more stressful ?
i had thought it might , however it was all quite informal though and in fact they seemed very keen to talk .
and i dont think using the phone meant i got less rich data , rather the opposite in fact .
and you were looking at how performers dress for concert performances ?
my research investigated the way players see their role as a musician and how this is linked to the type of clothing they decide to wear .
but that focus didnt emerge immediately .
when i started i was more interested in trying to investigate the impact of what was worn on those listening , and also whether someone like a violinist might adopt a different style of clothing form say , someone playing the flute or trumpet .
its interesting that the choice of dress is up to the individual , isnt it ?
yes , youd expect there to be rules about it in orchestras , but thats quite rare .
you only had women performers in your study .
was that because male musicians are less worried about fashion ?
i think a lot of the men are very much influenced by fashion , but in social terms the choices they have are more limited theyd really upset audiences if they strayed away form quite narrow boundaries .
now , popular music has quite different expectations .
did you read mile frosts article about the dress of women performers in popular music ?
he points out that a lot of female singers and musicians in popular music tend to dress down in performances , and wear less feminine clothes , like jeans instead of skirts , and he suggests this is because the otherwise theyd just be discounted as trivial .
but you could argue they are just wearing whats practical i mean , a pop music concert is usually a pretty energetic affair .
yes , but he doesnt make that point , but i think you are probably right .
i was interested by the effect of the audience at a musical performance when it came to the choice of dress .
the subjects i interviewed felt this was really important .
its all to do with what we understand by performance as a public event .
they believed the audience had certain expectations and it was up to them as performers to fulfill these expectations , to show a kind of esteem .
they werent afraid of looking as if theyd made an effort to look good .
i think in the past the audience would have had those expectations of one another too , but thats not really the case now , not in the uk anyway .
and i also got interested in what in what sports scientists are doing too , with regard to clothing .
musicians are quite vulnerable physically , arent they , because the movements they carry out are very intensive and repetitive , arent they , because the movements they carry out are very intensive and repetitive , so id imagine some features of sports clothing could safeguard the players from the potentially dangerous effects of this sort of thing .
yes , but musicians dont really consider it .
they avoid clothing that obviously restricts their movements , but thats as far as they go .
anyway , coming back to your own research , do you have any idea where you are going from here ?
i was thinking of doing a study using an audience , including .
of all mankinds manifold creations , language must take pride of place .
other inventions the wheel , agriculture , sliced bread may have transformed our material existence , but the advent of language is what made us human .
compared to language , all other inventions pale in significance , since everything we have ever achieved depends on language and originates from it .
without language , we could never have embarked on our ascent to unparalleled power over all other animals , and even over nature itself .
but language is foremost not just because it came first .
as we saw in the last lecture , a major cause of climate change is the rapid rise in the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere over the last century .
if we could reduce the amount of co2 , perhaps the rate of climate change could also be slowed down .
one potential method involves enhancing the role of the soil that plants grow in , with regard to absorbing co2 .
rattan lal , a soil scientist from ohio state university , in the usa , claims that the worlds agricultural soils could potentially absorb 13 per cent of the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere the equivalent of the amount released in the last 30 years .
and research is going on into how this might be achieved .
cork the thick bark of the cork oak tree quercus suber is a remarkable material .
it is tough , elastic , buoyant , and fire resistant , and suitable for a wide range of purposes .
the ancient egyptians sealed then sarcophagi stone coffins with cork , while the ancient greeks and romans used it for anything from beehives to sandals .
and the cork oak itself is an extraordinary tree .
its bark grows up to 20 cm in thickness , insulating the tree like a coat wrapped around the trunk and branches and keeping the inside at a constant 20 c all year round .
developed most probably as a defence against forest fires , the bark of the cork oak has a particular cellular structure with about 40 million cells per cubic centimetre that technology has never succeeded in replicating .
the cells are filled with air , which is why cork is so buoyant .
it also has an elasticity that means you can squash it and watch it spring back to its original size and shape when you release the pressure .
cork oaks grow in a number of mediterranean countries , including portugal , spain , italy , greece and morocco .
they flourish in warm , sunny climates where there is a minimum of 400 millimetres of rain per year , and no more than 800 millimetres .
like grape vines , the trees thrive in poor soil , putting down deep root in search of moisture and nutrients .
southern portugals alentejo region meets all of these requirements , which explains why , by the early 20th century , this region had become the worlds largest producer of cork , and why today it accounts for roughly half of all cork production around the world .
most cork forests are family owned .
many of these family businesses , and indeed many of the trees themselves , are around 200 years old .
cork production is , above all , an exercise in patience .
from the planting of a cork sapling to the first harvest takes 25 years , and a gap of approximately a decade must separate harvests from an individual tree .
and for top quality cork , its necessary to wait a further 15 or 20 years .
you even have to wait for the right kind of summers day to harvest cork .
if the bark is stripped on a day when its too cold or when the air is damp the tree will be damaged .
cork harvesting is a very specialised profession .
no mechanical means of stripping cork bark has been invented , so the job is done by teams of highly skilled workers .
first , they make vertical cuts down the bark using small sharp axes , then lever it away in pieces as large as they can manage .
the most skilful cork strippers prise away a semi circular husk that runs the length of the trunk from just above ground level to the first branches .
it is then dried on the ground for about four months , before being taken to factories , where it is boiled to kill any insects that might remain in the cork .
over 60 of cork then goes on to be made into traditional bottle stoppers , with most of the remainder being used in the construction trade , corkboard and cork tiles are ideal for thermal and acoustic insulation , while granules of cork are used in the manufacture of concrete .
recent years have seen the end of the virtual monopoly of cork as the material for bottle stoppers , due to concerns about the effect it may have on the contents of the bottle .
this is caused by a chemical compound called 2 , 4 , 6 trichloroanisole tca , which forms through the interaction of plant phenols , chlorine and mould .
the tiniest concentrations as little as three or four parts to a trillion can spoil the taste of the product contained in the bottle .
the result has been a gradual yet steady move first towards plastic stoppers and , more recently , to aluminium screw caps .
these substitutes are cheaper to manufacture and , in the case of screw caps , more convenient for the user .
the classic cork stopper does have several advantages , however .
firstly , its traditional image is more in keeping with that of the type of high quality goods with which it has long been associated .
secondly and very importantly cork is a sustainable product that can be recycled without difficulty .
moreover , cork forests are a resource which support local biodiversity , and prevent desertification in the regions where they are planted .
so , given the current concerns about environmental issues , the future of this ancient material once again looks promising .
collecting must be one of the most varied of human activities , and its one that many of us psychologists find fascinating .
an archtophilist collects teddy bears , a philatelist collects postage stamps , and a deltiologist collects postcards .
amassing hundreds or even thousands of postcards , chocolate wrappers or whatever , takes time , energy and money that could surely to much more productive use .
and yet there are millions of collectors around the world .
there are the people who collect because they want to make money this could be called an instrumental reason for collecting .
that is , collecting as a means to an end .
they will look for , say , antiques that they can buy cheaply and expect to be able to sell at a profit .
but there may well be a psychological element , too buying cheap and selling dear can give the collector a sense of triumph .
and as selling online is so easy , more and more people are joining in .
many collectors collect to develop their social life , attending meetings of a group of collectors and exchanging information on items .
this is a variant on joining a bridge club or a gym , and similarly brings them into contact with like minded people .
another motive for collecting is the desire to find something special , or a particular example of the collected item , such as a rare early recording by a particular singer .
some may spend their whole lives in a hunt for this .
psychologically , this can give a purpose to a life that otherwise feels aimless .
there is a danger , though , that if the individual is ever lucky enough to find what they are looking for , rather than celebrating their success , they may feel empty , now that the goal that drove them on has gone .
if you think about collecting postage stamps another potential reason for it or , perhaps , a result of collecting is its educational value .
stamp collecting opens a window to other countries , and to the plants , animals , or famous people shown on their stamps .
similarly , in the 19th century , many collectors amassed fossils , animals and plants from around the globe , and their collections provided a vast amount of information about the natural world .
without those collections , our understanding would be greatly inferior to what it is .
in the past and nowadays , too , though to a lesser extent a popular form of collecting , particularly among boys and men , was trainspotting .
this might involve trying to see every locomotive of a particular type , using published data that identifies each one , and ticking off each engine as it is seen .
trainspotters exchange information , these days often by mobile phone , so they can work out where to go to , to see a particular engine .
as a by product , many practitioners of the hobby become very knowledgeable about railway operations , or the technical specifications of different engine types .
similarly , people who collect dolls may go beyond simply enlarging their collection , and develop an interest in the way that dolls are made , or the materials that are used .
these have changed over the centuries from the wood that was standard in 16th century europe , through the wax and porcelain of later centuries , to the plastics of todays dolls .
or collectors might be inspired to study how dolls reflect notions of what children like , or ought to like .
not all collectors are interested in learning from their hobby , though , so what we might call a psychological reason for collecting is the need for a sense of control , perhaps as a way of dealing with insecurity .
stamp collectors , for instance , arrange their stamps in albums , usually very neatly , organising their collection according to certain commonplace principles perhaps by country in alphabetical order , or grouping stamps by what they depict people , birds , maps , and so on .
one reason , conscious or not , for what someone chooses to collect is to show the collectors individualism .
someone who decides to collect something as unexpected as dog collars , for instance , may be conveying their belief that they must be interesting themselves .
and believe it or not , there is at least one dog collar museum in existence , and it grew out of a personal collection .
pleasure is putting it far too mildly .
more than most other hobbies , collecting can be totally engrossing , and can give a strong sense of personal fulfilment .
to non collectors it may appear an eccentric , if harmless , way of spending time , but potentially , collecting has a lot going for it .
we need to start planning our paper on public libraries .
have you thought of an angle yet ?
well , theres so much we could look into .
how libraries have changed over the centuries , for instance , or how different countries organise them .
what do you think , trudie ?
maybe we should concentrate on this country and try and relate the changes in libraries to external developments , like the fact that far more people can read than a century ago , and that the local population may speak lots of different languages .
we could include something about changes in the source of funding , too .
yes , but remember we are only supposed to write a short paper , so its probably best if we do not go into funding in any detail .
well , shall we just brainstorm a few ideas , to get started ?
we obviously need to look at the impact of new technology , particularly the internet .
now that lots of books have been digitalised , people can access them from their own computers at home .
and if everyone did that , libraries would be obsolete .
but the digitalised books that are available online for free are mostly out of copyright .
and copyright in this country lasts for 70 years after the author dies .
so you wo not find the latest best seller or up to date information .
thats an important point .
anyway , i find it hard to concentrate when i am reading a long text on a screen .
id much rather read a physical book .
and it takes longer to read on a screen .
i suppose its just a personal preference .
i expect that libraries will go on evolving in the next few years .
some have already become centres where community activities take place , like local clubs meeting there .
i think that will become even more common .
id like to think so , and that they will still be serving their traditional function , but i am not so sure .
there are financial implications , after all .
what i am afraid will happen is that books and magazines will all disappear , and there will just be rows and rows of computers .
they wo not look anything like the libraries we are used to .
well , we will see .
i have just had an idea .
why do not we make an in depth study of our local public library as background to our paper ?
yes , thatd be interesting , and raise all sorts of issues .
lets make a list of possible things we could ask about , then work out some sort of structure .
for instance , we could interview some of the staff , and find out whether the library has its own budget , or if thats controlled by the local council .
and what their policies are .
i know they do not allow food , but id love to find out what types of noise they ban there always seems to be a lot of talking , but never music .
i do not know if thats a policy or it just happens .
i have often wondered .
then there are things like how the library is affected by employment laws .
i suppose there are rules about working hours , facilities for staff , and so on .
then there are other issues relating to the design of the building and how customers use it .
like what measures does the library take to ensure their safety ?
theyd need floor coverings that are not slippery , and emergency exits , for instance .
oh , and another thing theres the question of the kind of insurance the library needs to have , in case anyone gets injured .
yes , thats something else to find out .
you know something i have often wondered ?
well , you know they have got an archive of local newspapers going back years ?
well , next to it they have got the diary of a well known politician from the late 19th century .
i wonder why its there .
do you know what his connection was with this area ?
lets add it to our list of thing to find out .
oh i have just thought you know people might ask in the library about local organisations , like sports clubs ?
well , i wonder if they keep a database , or whether they just look online .
i quite fancy finding out what the differences are between a library thats open to the public and one thats part of a museum , for example they must be very different .
then something else id like to know is .
collaboration , hard work , creativity and excellence .
most people would say they are all good things .
i am going to suggest thats an over simple view .
the trouble with these values is that they are theoretical concepts , removed from the reality of day to day business .
pursue values by all means , but be prepared for what may happen as a result , they can actually cause damage , which is not at all the intention .
business leaders generally try to do the right thing .
but all too often the right thing backfires , if those leaders adopt values without understanding and managing the side effects that arise .
the values can easily get in the way of whats actually intended .
so the first value i am going to discuss is collaboration .
let me give you an example .
on a management training course i once attended , we were put into groups and had to construct a bridge across a stream , using building blocks that we were given .
i would found an institution where any person can find instruction in any subject .
that was the founders motto for cornell university , and it seems an apt characterization of the different university , also in the usa , where i currently teach philosophy .
any undergraduates who have met the academic requirements can sign up for the course in our program in fire science .
naturally , the course is intended for prospective arson investigators , who can learn all the tricks of the trade for detecting whether a fire was deliberately set , discovering who did it , and establishing a chain of evidence for effective prosecution in a court of law .
first , every single person needs food each day and has a right to it .
second , it is hugely dependent on nature .
these two unique aspects , one political , the other natural , make food production highly vulnerable and different from any other business .
at the same time , cultural values are highly entrenched in food and agricultural systems worldwide .
farmers everywhere face major risks , including extreme weather , long term climate change , and price volatility in input and product markets .
however , smallholder farmers in developing countries must in addition deal with adverse environments , both natural , in terms of soil quality , rainfall and human , in terms of infrastructure , financial systems , markets , knowledge and technology .
counter intuitively , hunger is prevalent among many smallholder farmers in the developing world .
participants in the online debate argued that our biggest challenge is to address the underlying causes of the agricultural systems inability to ensure sufficient food for all , and they identified as drivers of this problem our dependency on fossil fuels and unsupportive government policies .
on the question of mitigating the risks farmers face , most essayists called for greater state intervention .
in his essay , kanayo f . nwanze , president of the international fund for agricultural development , argued that governments can significantly reduce risks for farmers by providing basic services like roads to get produce more efficiently to markets , or water and food storage facilities to reduce losses .
sophia murphy , senior advisor to the institute for agriculture and trade policy , suggested that the procurement and holding of stocks by governments can also help mitigate wild swings in food prices by alleviating uncertainties about market supply .
shenggen fan , director general of the international food policy research institute , held up social safety nets and public welfare programmes in ethiopia , brazil and mexico as valuable ways to address poverty among farming families and reduce their vulnerability to agriculture shocks .
however , some commentators responded that cash transfers to poor families do not necessarily translate into increased food security , as these programmes do not always strengthen food production or raise incomes .
regarding state subsidies for agriculture , rokeya kabir , executive director of bangladesh nari progati sangha , commented in her essay that these have not compensated for the stranglehold exercised by private traders .
in fact , studies show that sixty percent of beneficiaries of subsidies are not poor , but rich landowners and non farmer traders .
nwanze , murphy and fan argued that private risk management tools , like private insurance , commodity futures markets , and rural finance can help small scale producers mitigate risk and allow for investment in improvements .
kabir warned that financial support schemes often encourage the adoption of high input agricultural practices , which in the medium term may raise production costs beyond the value of their harvests .
murphy noted that when futures markets become excessively financialised they can contribute to short term price volatility , which increases farmers food insecurity .
many participants and commentators emphasised that greater transparency in markets is needed to mitigate the impact of volatility , and make evident whether adequate stocks and supplies are available .
others contended that agribusiness companies should be held responsible for paying for negative side effects .
many essayists mentioned climate change and its consequences for small scale agriculture .
fan explained that in addition to reducing crop yields , climate change increases the magnitude and the frequency of extreme weather events , which increase smallholder vulnerability .
according to this author , one solution would be to develop crop varieties that are more resilient to new climate trends and extreme weather patterns .
accordingly , pat mooney , co founder and executive director of the etc group , suggested that if we are to survive climate change , we must adopt policies that let peasants diversify the plant and animal species and varieties breeds that make up our menus .
some participating authors and commentators argued in favour of community based and autonomous risk management strategies through collective action groups , co operatives or producers groups .
such groups enhance market opportunities for small scale producers , reduce marketing costs and synchronise buying and selling with seasonal price conditions .
according to murphy , collective action offers an important way for farmers to strengthen their political and economic bargaining power , and to reduce their business risks .
one commentator , giel ton , warned that collective action does not come as a free good .
it takes time , effort and money to organise , build trust and to experiment .
others , like marcel vernooij and marcel beukeboom , suggested that in order to apply what we already know , all stakeholders , including business , government , scientists and civil society , must work together , starting at the beginning of the value chain .
some participants explained that market price volatility is often worsened by the presence of intermediary purchasers who , taking advantage of farmers vulnerability , dictate prices .
one commentator suggested farmers can gain greater control over prices and minimise price volatility by selling directly to consumers .
similarly , sonali bisht , founder and advisor to the institute of himalayan environmental research and education inhere , india , wrote that copipunity supported agriculture , where consumers invest in local farmers by subscription and guarantee producers a fair price , is a risk sharing model worth more attention .
direct food distribution systems not only encourage small scale agriculture but also give consumers more control over the food they consume , she wrote .
i have now almost succeeded in finalising plans for our tour , so i will bring you up to date with what i know .
as you know , we are flying first to munich , on monday the 4th .
the flight is at 11 .
so its too early to have lunch at the airport .
i suggest we meet there for coffee at 10 , which should give us plenty of time for breakfast before we leave home .
when we arrive in munich , we will be met at the airport by claus bauer .
claus works for a tour operator , and he will look after us for the time we will be in germany .
hes already liaised with the managers of the theatres we are going to visit , and hes also arranged for an officer of the national theatre in munich to show us round the theatre one afternoon during our stay .
now last time we discussed this trip , i did not have the precise cost for hotel rooms , but now i have .
the normal rate at the hotel where we are staying is 150 euros a night for a double room .
id hoped to get that down to 120 euros , but in fact i have been able to negotiate a rate of 110 .
that will be reflected in the final payment which you will need to make by the end of this week .
on tuesday , the day after our arrival , i had hoped we could sit in on a rehearsal at one of the theatres , but unfortunately thats proved very difficult to arrange , so instead we will have a coach trip to one of the amazing castles in the mountains south of munich .
on tuesday evening , we will all have dinner together in a restaurant near our hotel .
from talking to you all about your preferences , it was clear that a typical local restaurant would be too meat oriented for some of you .
some of you suggested an italian restaurant , but i must confess that i decided to book a lebanese one , as we have plenty of opportunities to go to an italian restaurant at home .
on wednesday afternoon , the director of the play we are going to see that evening will talk to us at the theatre .
she will describe the whole process of producing a play , including how she chose the actors , and , as the play we are going to see is a modern one , how she worked with the playwright .
now id just like to make a few points about the plays we are going to see , partly because it might influence your choice of clothes to take with you !
the play we are seeing on wednesday evening is a modern one , and we are going to the premiere , so it will be quite a dressy occasion , though of course you do not have to dress formally .
i gather its rather a multimedia production , with amazing lighting effects and a soundtrack of electronic music , though unfortunately the playwright is ill and is unlikely to be able to attend .
on thursday we are seeing a play that was first performed last year , when it was commissioned to mark a hundred years since the birth in the town of a well known scientist .
we are going to see a revival of that production , which aroused a lot of interest .
fridays play will really make you think hard about what clothes to pack , as it will be in the garden of a palace .
its a beautiful setting , but id better warn you , there wo not be much protection from the wind .
on saturday , we are going by coach to a theatre in another town , not far from munich .
this will be the opening of a drama festival , and the mayor and all the other dignitaries of the town will be attending .
after the performance , the mayor is hosting a reception for all the audience , and there will be a band playing traditional music of the region .
and after having a day off on sunday , our final play is on monday , and its in the stunning setting of the old town hall which dates back to the 14th century .
the performance marks the fifty years that the lead actor has been on stage , and the play is the one where he made his first professional appearance all those years ago .
and the day after that , we will be flying back home .
now have you got any questions before i .
an explorers encounter with the ruined city of machu picchu , the most famous icon of the inca civilisation .
the exploration of the remote hinterland to the west of cusco , the old capital of the inca empire in the andes mountains of peru .
his goal was to locate the remains of a city called vitcos , the last capital of the inca civilisation .
cusco lies on a high plateau at an elevation of more than 3 , 000 metres , and binghams plan was to descend from this plateau along the valley of the urubamba river , which takes a circuitous route down to the amazon and passes through an area of dramatic canyons and mountain ranges .
a track had recently been blasted down the valley canyon to enable rubber to be brought up by mules from the jungle .
almost all previous travellers had left the river at ollantaytambo and taken a high pass across the mountains to rejoin the river lower down , thereby cutting a substantial corner , but also therefore never passing through the area around machu picchu .
on 24 july they were a few days into their descent of the valley .
the day began slowly , with bingham trying to arrange sufficient mules for the next stage of the trek .
his companions showed no interest in accompanying him up the nearby hill to see some ruins that a local farmer , melchor arteaga , had told them about the night before .
the morning was dull and damp , and bingham also seems to have been less than keen on the prospect of climbing the hill .
in his book lost city of the incas , he relates that he made the ascent without having the least expectation that he would find anything at the top .
bingham writes about the approach in vivid style in his book .
first , as he climbs up the hill , he describes the ever present possibility of deadly snakes , capable of making considerable springs when in pursuit of their prey .
not that he sees any .
then theres a sense of mounting discovery as he comes across great sweeps of terraces , then a mausoleum , followed by monumental staircases and , finally , the grand ceremonial buildings of machu picchu .
it seemed like an unbelievable dream the sight held me spellbound , he wrote .
we should remember , however , that lost city of the incas is a work of hindsight , not written until 1948 , many years after his journey .
his journal entries of the time reveal a much more gradual appreciation of his achievement .
he spent the afternoon at the ruins noting down the dimensions of some of the buildings , then descended and rejoined his companions , to whom he seems to have said little about his discovery .
at this stage , bingham did not realise the extent or the importance of the site , nor did he realise what use he could make of the discovery .
however , soon after returning it occurred to him that he could make a name for himself from this discovery .
when he came to write the national geographic magazine article that broke the story to the world in april 1913 , he knew he had to produce a big idea .
he wondered whether it could have been the birthplace of the very first inca , manco the great , and whether it could also have been what chroniclers described as the last city of the incas .
this term refers to vilcabamba the settlement where the incas had fled from spanish invaders in the 1530s .
bingham made desperate attempts to prove this belief for nearly 40 years .
sadly , his vision of the site as both the beginning and end of the inca civilisation , while a magnificent one , is inaccurate .
we now know , that vilcabamba actually lies 65 kilometres away in the depths of the jungle .
one question that has perplexed visitors , historians and archaeologists alike ever since bingham , is why the site seems to have been abandoned before the spanish conquest .
there are no references to it by any of the spanish chroniclers and if they had known of its existence so close to cusco they would certainly have come in search of gold .
an idea which has gained wide acceptance over the past few years is that machu picchu was a moya , a country estate built by an inca emperor to escape the cold winters of cusco , where the elite could enjoy monumental architecture and spectacular views .
furthermore , the particular architecture of machu picchu suggests that it was constructed at the time of the greatest of all the incas , the emperor pachacuti 1438 71 .
by custom , pachacutis descendants built other similar estates for their own use , and so machu picchu would have been abandoned after his death , some 50 years before the spanish conquest .
according to the latest figures , the majority of the worlds population is now bilingual or multilingual , having grown up speaking two or more languages .
in the past , such children were considered to be at a disadvantage compared with their monolingual peers .
over the past few decades , however , technological advances have allowed researchers to look more deeply at how bilingualism interacts with and changes the cognitive and neurological systems , thereby identifying several clear benefits of being bilingual .
research shows that when a bilingual person uses one language , the other is active at the same time .
the sounds arrive in sequential order .
over the years , attitudes towards workers have changed considerably .
after all , there was a time when workers had no rights at all , and laboured in appalling conditions .
conditions have improved a lot , but conflict in the workplace is still common .
and human resources managers nowadays need to be able to deal with it when necessary .
what is conflict in the workplace ?
definitions vary , but i am taking it to refer to a whole range of behaviours that the victim finds unacceptable , from minor , harmless arguments to at the opposite extreme physical violence .
an airborne reintroduction programme has helped conservationists take significant steps to protect the endangered galapagos tortoise .
forests of spiny cacti cover much of the uneven lava plains that separate the interior of the galapagos island of isabela from the pacific ocean .
with its five distinct volcanoes , the island resembles a lunar landscape .
only the thick vegetation at the skirt of the often cloud covered peak of sierra negra offers respite from the barren terrain below .
this inhospitable environment is home to the giant galapagos tortoise .
now , the travel business is very competitive and its important to be aware of how the markets changing and developing .
in terms of age groups , the over 65s are an important market , and one thats increasing steadily year on year .
the fewest holidays are taken by the 31 to 42 year olds , and that figure shows no sign of rising .
the biggest market at present is still the youngest group , the 16 to 30s , but this groups also seen the biggest drop over the last few years , whereas theres a noticeable growth in the number of holidays taken by the 55 to 64 year olds .
as far as the 43 to 54 year olds are concerned , bookings there are steady , but i have to say we have not seen the increase we expected .
one trend we are noticing with nearly all age groups is the growing popularity of holidays in which clients do some kind of specialised activity .
i am not talking here about adventure holidays , where clients take part in high risk activities like white water rafting just for the thrill of it .
activity holidays usually involve rather less high risk sports , or things like art and music .
they are not necessarily cheaper than ordinary holidays , often the opposite , in fact .
but they do often take place outside the main tourist centres , which gives an opportunity for clients to find out more about the local people and customs , and many say this is one of the most positive features of these holidays .
of course , they offer the chance to develop a new skill or talent , but clients often say that more than this , its the chance to create lasting relationships with other like minded people thats the main draw .
let me give you some examples of bc travel activity holidays .
our painting holidays take place in four different centres in france and italy and they are very popular with clients of all abilities from beginners onwards .
we have got an excellent team of artists to lead the classes some of them have been with us from the start , and five additional ones will be joining us this year so that we can offer a greater number of classes in each centre .
as far as cooking holidays are concerned .
i know a lot of agents offer holidays where clients cook recipes related to one particular country , usually the one they are starving in , but we focus on dishes from a great many different ones .
apart from that you will find the usual emphasis on good quality , organic ingredients thats more or less a given nowadays and there are generally some meat free recipes included .
our photography holidays take place in a wide range of countries from iceland to vietnam , and clients have the opportunity to see some stunning scenery .
groups are small , no more than eight so clients can have one on one tuition during the holiday and excursions are arranged with fully trained guides .
at the end of each holiday an exhibition is held of the photographs taken so that clients can see one anothers work and receive valuable feedback from the tutor .
finally , let me tell you about our fitness holidays .
in ireland and italy we run one week general fitness classes for all ages and levels of fitness .
clients start the course with a consultation with a trainer , and together they draw up a individual programme .
as well as improving general fitness , clients find that they end up losing much of the stress they have built up in their daily lives .
in greece , we have a two week holiday for clients who want to do something about their weight .
this has all the features youd expect , like a personalised diet programme but one of its most popular features is that the exercise classes are all held on the beach .
people say its far preferable to being in a gym .
finally , we offer several holidays in morocco .
one very popular one is the mountain biking holiday .
bikes are provided and there are different routes according to peoples ability .
we offer one which is tailored to the needs of families , which is particular popular .
while many diseases that affect humans have been eradicated due to improvements in vaccinations and the availability of healthcare , there are still areas around the world where certain health issues are more prevalent .
in a world that is far more globalised than ever before , people come into contact with one another through travel and living closer and closer to each other .
as a result , super viruses and other infections resistant to antibiotics are becoming more and more common .
geography can often play a very large role in the health concerns of certain populations .
for instance , depending on where you live , you will not have the same health concerns as someone who lives in a different geographical region .
dave , i am worried about our case study .
i have done a bit of reading , but i am not sure whats involved in actually writing a case study i missed the lecture where dr baker talked us through it .
ok , well its quite straightforward .
we have got our focus thats tourism at the horton castle site .
and you said youd done some reading about it .
yes , i found some articles and made notes of the main points .
did you remember to keep a record of where you got the information from ?
i know what a pain it is when you forget that .
ok , so we can compare what we have read .
then we have to decide on a particular problem or need at our site .
and then think about who we are going to interview to get more information .
so whod that be ?
the people who work there ?
and presumably some of the tourists too ?
yes , both those groups .
so i suppose , we will have to go to the site to do that .
but we might also do some of our interviewed away from the site we could even contact some people here in the city , like administrators involved in overseeing tourism .
so we will need to think about our interview questions and fix times and places for the meetings .
its all going to take a lot of time .
and if we can , we should ask our interviewees if they can bring along some numerical data that we can add to support our findings .
i think we have plenty of those already .
but dr baker also said we have to establish with our interviewees whether we can identify them in our case study or whether they want to be anonymous .
i would not have thought of that .
ok , once we have got all this information , i suppose we have to analyse it .
yes , put it all together and choose whats relevant to the problem we are focusing on .
and analyse that carefully to find out if we can identify any trends or regularities there .
thats the main thing at this stage , rather than concentrating on details or lots of facts .
and then once we have analysed that , what next ?
well , then we need to think about what we do with the data we have selected to make it as clear as possible to our readers .
thing like graphs , or tables , or charts .
then the case study itself is mostly quite standard .
we begin by presenting the problem , and giving some background , then go through the main sections , but the thing that surprised me is that in a normal report wed end with some suggestions to deal with the problem or need we identified , but in a case study we end up with a question or a series of questions to our readers , and they decide what ought to be done .
i had not realised that .
neuroscientist jonah lehrer considers the emotional power of music .
why does music make us feel ?
on the one hand , music is a purely abstract art form , devoid of language or explicit ideas .
and yet , even though music says little , it still manages to touch us deeply .
when listening to our favourite songs , our body betrays all the symptoms of emotional arousal .
we have been looking at how man made changes in our environment can affect wildlife .
now i will discuss a particular example .
lets take a look at mercury .
mercurys one of the 120 or so elements that make up all matter , and it has the symbol hg .
its a shiny , silvery substance .
from our earliest origins , man has been making use of glass .
historians have discovered that a type of natural glass obsidian formed in places such as the mouth of a volcano as a result of the intense heat of an eruption melting sand was first used as tips for spears .
archaeologists have even found evidence of man made glass which dates back to 4000 bc .
this took the form of glazes used for coating stone beads .
it was not until 1500 bc , however , that the first hollow glass container was made by covering a sand core with a layer of molten glass .
glass blowing became the most common way to make glass containers from the first century bc .
welcome to this podcast about the sheepmarket , which is one of the oldest parts of the city .
as its name suggests , there was originally a market here where farmers brought their sheep , but now its been redeveloped into a buzzing , vibrant area of the city , which is also home to one of the citys fastest growing communities .
the nearby university has always meant the areas popular with students , who come in to enjoy the lively nightlife but now graduates embarking on careers in the worlds of fashion and design are buying up the new apartments recently built here to replace the small houses where the market workers used to live .
the narrow old side streets are great places for finding original pictures , jewellery and ceramics which wo not break the bank , as well as local produce like fruit and vegetables .
theres also lots of pavement cafes where you can have a coffee and watch tourists from all over the world go by .
the oldest buildings in the area are on the main streets , including the citys first department store , built in the 1880s , which is still open today .
the sheepmarket is a centre for fashion , and theres a policy of encouraging new young designers .
the young fashion competition is open to local young people who are passionate about fashion .
this year they have been asked to design an outfit based on ideas from the music and technology thats part of their everyday life , using both natural and man made fibres .
the garments will be judged by a panel of experts and fashion designers , and the winning entries will be modelled at a special gala evening .
parking at the sheepmarket is easy .
there are plenty of pay and display car parking spaces on the roadsides which are fine if you just want to stay for an hour or two , but if you want to spend the day there its better to park in one of the four underground car parks .
its not expensive and if you can present a receipt from one of the local stores , you will not be charged at all .
after six pm many of the car parks have a flat rate which varies but it is usually very reasonable .
the sheepmarket is one of the main centres for art and history in the whole of the country .
if you look at our map , you will see some of the main attractions there .
most visitors start from crawley road , at the bottom of the map .
the reynolds house is one of the oldest houses in the city , and is open to the public .
its on the north side of crawley road , next to the footpath that leads to the public gardens .
the areas particularly interested for its unusual sculptures .
the thumb is just what its name suggests but its about 10 metres high .
you will see iron hill road , across the road from the bank .
the museums got a particularly fine collection of new zealand landscapes .
its on the east side of the sheepmarket , on city road .
its on the other side of the road from the public gardens , immediately facing the junction with hill road .
the contemporary art gallery is on a little road that leads off station square , not far from the public gardens .
the road ends at the gallery it does not go anywhere else .
thats open every day except mondays .
the warner gallery specializes in 19th century art .
its on city road , near the junction with crawley road , on the same side of the road as the public gardens .
its open on weekdays from 9 to 5 , and entry is free .
finally , if you are interested in purchasing high quality artwork , the place to go is nucleus .
you need to go from crawley road up through station square and east along hill road until you get to a small winding road turning off .
go up there and its on your right if you get to city road you have gone too far .
its time to start returning vanished native animals to britain , says john vesty there is a poem , written around 598 ad , which describes hunting a mystery animal called a llewyn .
but what was it ?
nothing seemed to fit , until 2006 , when an animal bone , dating from around the same period , was found in the kinsey cave in northern england .
until this discovery , the lynx a large spotted cat with tassel led ears was presumed to have died out in britain at least 6 , 000 years ago , before the inhabitants of these islands took up farming .
but the 2006 find , together with three others in yorkshire and scotland , is compelling evidence that the lynx and the mysterious llewyn were in fact one and the same animal .
if this is so , it would bring forward the tassel eared cats estimated extinction date by roughly 5 , 000 years .
however , this is not quite the last glimpse of the animal in british culture .
a 9th century stone cross from the isle of eigg shows , alongside the deer , boar and aurochs pursued by a mounted hunter , a speckled cat with tasselled ears .
were it not for the animals backside having worn away with time , we could have been certain , as the lynxs stubby tail is unmistakable .
but even without this key feature , its hard to see what else the creature could have been .
rewilding means the mass restoration of damaged ecosystems .
it involves letting trees return to places that have been denuded , allowing parts of the seabed to recover from trawling and dredging , permitting rivers to flow freely again .
above all , it means bringing back missing species .
one of the most striking findings of modern ecology is that ecosystems without large predators behave in completely different ways from those that retain them .
some of them drive dynamic processes that resonate through the whole food chain , creating niches for hundreds of species that might otherwise struggle to survive .
the killers turn out to be bringers of life .
such findings present a big challenge to british conservation , which has often selected arbitrary assemblages of plants and animals and sought , at great effort and expense , to prevent them from changing .
it has tried to preserve the living world as if it were a jar of pickles , letting nothing in and nothing out , keeping nature in a state of arrested development .
and this dynamism often depends on large predators .
vast shoals of fish being chased by fin and sperm whales , within sight of the english shore .
this policy would also greatly boost catches in the surrounding seas .
the fishing industrys insistence on scouring every inch of seabed , leaving no breeding reserves , could not be more damaging to its own interests .
rewilding is a rare example of an environmental movement in which campaigners articulate what they are for rather than only what they are against .
one of the reasons why the enthusiasm for rewilding is spreading so quickly in britain is that it helps to create a more inspiring vision than the green movements usual promise of follow us and the world will be slightly less awful than it would otherwise have been .
there is no known instance of one preying on people .
it is a specialist predator of roe deer , a species that has exploded in britain in recent decades , holding back , by intensive browsing , attempts to re establish forests .
an exotic species that is almost impossible for human beings to control , as it hides in impenetrable plantations of young trees .
the attempt to reintroduce this predator marries well with the aim of bringing forests back to parts of our bare and barren uplands .
the lynx requires deep cover , and as such presents little risk to sheep and other livestock , which are supposed , as a condition of farm subsidies , to be kept out of the woods .
on a recent trip to the cairngorm mountains , i heard several conservationists suggest that the lynx could be reintroduced there within 20 years .
if trees return to the bare hills elsewhere in britain , the big cats could soon follow .
there is nothing extraordinary about these proposals , seen from the perspective of anywhere else in europe .
the lynx has now been reintroduced to the jura mountains , the alps , the vosges in eastern france and the harz mountains in germany , and has re established itself in many more places .
the european population has tripled since 1970 to roughly 10 , 000 .
as with wolves , bears , beavers , boar , bison , moose and many other species , the lynx has been able to spread as farming has , left the hills and people discover that it is more lucrative to protect charismatic wildlife than to hunt it , as tourists will pay for the chance to see it .
large scale rewilding is happening almost everywhere except britain .
here , attitudes are just beginning to change .
conservationists are starting to accept that the old preservation jar model is failing , even on its own terms .
already , projects such as trees for life in the highlands provide a hint of what might be coming .
after a number of serious failures of governance that is , how they are managed at the highest level , companies in britain , as well as elsewhere , should consider radical changes to their directors roles .
it is clear that the role of a board director today is not an easy one .
following the 2008 financial meltdown , which resulted in a deeper and more prolonged period of economic downturn than anyone expected , the search for explanations in the many post mortems of the crisis has meant blame has been spread far and wide .
governments , regulators , central banks and auditors have all been in the frame .
the role of bank directors and management and their widely publicised failures have been extensively picked over and examined in reports , inquiries and commentaries .
this lecture will be about the science of acoustics , the study of sound , in relation to urban environments such as cities .
as an acoustic engineer myself , i think this is an area where we are likely to see great changes .
in the past , researching urban soundscapes was simple .
we measured levels of sound in decibels , so i used to take my sound meter and l measured the noise somewhere , and then i might ask a sample of people to say at what level the sound became annoying .
with data like this , acoustic engineers have been able to build up what we call noise maps , maps of the sound environment .
your contract may state that you need to dress in a certain manner or wear a uniform .
your contract might also state that you need to dress smardy , rather than specifying any particular garments .
as you might well have conflicting ideas of what counts as smart , you should ask your employer for clarification .
many employers that have a strict dress code choose to provide clothing or a discount on clothing .
however , this is not necessarily compulsory for the employer and is a factor you need to consider when taking a job .
protective clothing and equipment .
your employer can tell you to put on protective clothing and equipment such as gloves , a visor , boots , etc .
if you do not , your employer is entitled to take disciplinary action , which can include excluding you from the workplace .
co operate with your employer on health and safety .
correctly use work items provided by your employer , including protective equipment , in accordance with instructions .
not interfere with or misuse anything provided for your health and safety or welfare .
of course , any protective gear has to fit and be appropriate for the situation .
it should not cause you pain .
if it does , you should negotiate alternative equipment or arrangements .
do not be put off .
sometimes employers can , out of caution , interpret health and safety rules unnecessarily rigidly .
and of course you should not be required to pay for any protective equipment or clothing that you need .
however , if your employer buys the gear , they are entitled to keep it when you leave .
the obligation to maintain protective clothing lies with the employer .
the employer is also required to provide an appropriate storage space to keep the protective equipment in when it is not being used .
and finally , the employer must provide the equipment and service free of charge to the employee .
banning employees from wearing jewellery and loose clothing may be justified to prevent a potential hygiene hazard if you work in areas of food production or areas which need to be kept sterile .
likewise , your employer can judge that loose jewellery may constitute a snagging hazard if you operate machinery .
if you think restrictions are not justified by health and safety concerns , talk to your workplace union rep if you have one , as they may know of solutions to the problem which other employees have used before .
as more and more employees work from home full time and everyone has 24 7 access to email , balancing work and family may not seem like an easily attainable goal .
so how can you juggle the demands of both worlds ?
below are some tips to help you get started .
its easy to get sucked into habits that make us less efficient without realizing it like keeping your social media page open at work so you do not miss something important .
draw up a list with all the activities that do not enhance your life or career .
then minimize the time you spend on them .
its hard to say no especially to a supervisor or loved one , but sometimes that powerful little word is essential .
learn to use no judiciously and it will become a powerful tool in balancing work and family .
research shows that exercise helps you remain alert .
finding time to hit the gym may be hard , but it will ultimately help you get more things done because exercise really boosts energy and improves your ability to concentrate .
study after study shows that significant sleep deprivation affects your health and well being .
exposure to electronics can significantly negatively impact your sleep , so try to unplug an hour before you go to sleep .
what would you do if you had a whole day to yourself with no demands on your time ?
while most people do not have the luxury of a whole day dedicated to relaxation , constantly putting off that downtime and putting everyones needs before yours will wear you down .
pick a time to do something just for you .
even just a few minutes of me time a day will help to recharge your batteries .
do not assume your family and manager are aware of your concerns .
if you feel you have to adjust your schedule to discover a better work life balance , then voice that requirement .
if that means asking your boss for permission to leave a few minutes early once a week so you can hit that yoga class on the way home , do it .
all new habits require time to build , so if you find yourself sneaking your smartphone to bed , thats okay .
leave your phone downstairs tomorrow night .
tiny steps are the key to finding that balance , so start small , and go from there .
most of all , know your limitations and what works best for you .
then decide what really matters , what advice you want to follow , and prioritize .
durrani house pic runs restaurants and cafs as concessions in airports , train stations and other busy environments around the country .
we currently have a vacancy for a food preparation assistant in our restaurant at locksley stadium , serving football fans and concert goers before , during and after events .
in addition , we cater for private parties several times a week .
if you have relevant experience and a passion for preparing food to a very high standard , we will be delighted to hear from you .
you must be able to multitask and to work in a fast paced environment .
it goes without saying that working as an effective and supportive member of a team is essential .
so you need to be happy in this type of work .
the role includes the usual responsibilities , such as treating hygiene as your number one priority , cleaning work areas , and doing whatever is required to provide food of excellent quality .
the person appointed will carry out a range of tasks , including ensuring all raw food items are fresh , preparing vegetables to be cooked , making sure frozen food products are used in rotation , and throwing away any food products that are near or have passed their expiry date .
he or she will be required to familiarise themselves with the storage system , so as to put food product supplies in the proper place and retrieve them in the right order .
in particular , we are looking for someone with skill at baking , to play a large role in the production of pies and cakes .
given the nature of the venue , working hours vary from week to week , depending on the events being held , and will often involve starting early in the morning or finishing late at night .
you can expect to work an average of around 18 hours a week , although this can not be guaranteed .
you will also have the opportunity to work in another of our sites for one or two days a week , or for longer periods , and will be paid for ten days of holidays a year .
training will be provided in food safety .
brick by brick , six year old alice is building a magical kingdom .
imagining fairy tale turrets and fire breathing dragons , wicked witches and gallant heroes , shes creating an enchanting world .
although she is not aware of it , this fantasy is helping her take her first steps towards her capacity for creativity and so it will have important repercussions in her adult life .
minutes later , alice has abandoned the kingdom in favour of playing schools with her younger brother .
when she bosses him around as his teacher , shes practising how to regulate her emotions through pretence .
my names janet parker and i am the human resources manager .
we are very happy to welcome you to your new apprenticeship .
i hope that the next six months will be a positive and enjoyable experience for you .
id like to start with some general advice about being an apprentice .
most of you have very little or no experience of working for a big organisation and the first week or so may be quite challenging .
there will be a lot of new information to take in but do not worry too much about trying to remember everything .
the original idea for an urban bike sharing scheme dates back to a summers day in amsterdam in 1965 .
provo , the organisation that came up with the idea , was a group of dutch activists who wanted to change society .
they believed the scheme , which was known as the witte fietsenplan , was an answer to the perceived threats of air pollution and consumerism .
in the centre of amsterdam , they painted a small number of used bikes white .
they also distributed leaflets describing the dangers of cars and inviting people to use the white bikes .
the bikes were then left unlocked at various locations around the city , to be used by anyone in need of transport .
so what id like you to do now is to talk to your partner about your presentations on urban planning .
you should have done most of the reading now , so id like you to share your ideas , and talk about the structure of your presentation and what you need to do next .
i am glad we chose quite a specific topic cities built next to the sea .
it made it much easier to find relevant information .
and cities are growing so quickly i mean , we know that more than half the worlds population lives in cities now .
a critical ingredient in the success of hotels is developing and maintaining superior performance from their employees .
how is that accomplished ?
what human resource management practices should organizations invest in to acquire and retain great employees ?
some hotels aim to provide superior working conditions for their employees .
the idea originated from workplaces usually in the non service sector that emphasized fun and enjoyment as part of work life balance .
by contrast , the service sector , and more specifically hotels , has traditionally not extended these practices to address basic employee needs , such as good working conditions .
pfeffer emphasizes that in order to succeed in a global business environment , organizations must make investment in human resource management to allow them to acquire employees who possess better skills and capabilities than their competitors .
this investment will be to their competitive advantage .
despite this recognition of the importance of employee development , the hospitality industry has historically been dominated by underdeveloped hr practices .
lucas also points out that the substance of hrm practices does not appear to be designed to foster constructive relations with employees or to represent a managerial approach that enables developing and drawing out the full potential of people , even though employees may be broadly satisfied with many aspects of their work .
in addition , or maybe as a result , high employee turnover has been a recurring problem throughout the hospitality industry .
among the many cited reasons are low compensation , inadequate benefits , poor working conditions and compromised employee morale and attitudes .
ng and sorensen demonstrated that when managers provide recognition to employees , motivate employees to work together , and remove obstacles preventing effective performance , employees feel more obligated to stay with the company .
providing support to employees gives them the confidence to perform their jobs better and the motivation to stay with the organization .
hospitality organizations can therefore enhance employee motivation and retention through the development and improvement of their working conditions .
these conditions are inherently linked to the working environment .
while it seems likely that employees reactions to their job characteristics could be affected by a predisposition to view their work environment negatively , no evidence exists to support this hypothesis .
however , given the opportunity , many people will find something to complain about in relation to their workplace .
there is a strong link between the perceptions of employees and particular factors of their work environment that are separate from the work itself , including company policies , salary and vacations .
such conditions are particularly troubling for the luxury hotel market , where high quality service , requiring a sophisticated approach to hrm , is recognized as a critical source of competitive advantage .
in a real sense , the services of hotel employees represent their industry .
this representation has commonly been limited to guest experiences .
this suggests that there has been a dichotomy between the guest environment provided in luxury hotels and the working conditions of their employees .
it is therefore essential for hotel management to develop hrm practices that enable them to inspire and retain competent employees .
this requires an understanding of what motivates employees at different levels of management and different stages of their careers .
this implies that it is beneficial for hotel managers to understand what practices are most favorable to increase employee satisfaction and retention .
herzberg proposes that people have two major types of needs , the first being extrinsic motivation factors relating to the context in which work is performed , rather than the work itself .
these include working conditions and job security .
when these factors are unfavorable , job dissatisfaction may result .
significantly , though , just fulfilling these needs does not result in satisfaction , but only in the reduction of dissatisfaction .
employees also have intrinsic motivation needs or motivators , which include such factors as achievement and recognition .
unlike extrinsic factors , motivator factors may ideally result in job satisfaction .
herzbergs theory discusses the need for a balance of these two types of needs .
the impact of fun as a motivating factor at work has also been explored .
for example , tews , michel and stafford conducted a study focusing on staff from a chain of themed restaurants in the united states .
it was found that fun activities had a favorable impact on performance and manager support for fun had a favorable impact in reducing turnover .
their findings support the view that fun may indeed have a beneficial effect , but the framing of that fun must be carefully aligned with both organizational goals and employee characteristics .
managers must learn how to achieve the delicate balance of allowing employees the freedom to enjoy themselves at work while simultaneously maintaining high levels of performance .
deery has recommended several actions that can be adopted at the organizational level to retain good staff as well as assist in balancing work and family life .
those particularly appropriate to the hospitality industry include allowing adequate breaks during the working day , staff functions that involve families , and providing health and well being opportunities .
born in scotland , henderson emigrated to canada in 1855 and became a well known landscape photographer .
alexander henderson was born in scotland in 1831 and was the son of a successful merchant .
his grandfather , also called alexander , had founded the family business , and later became the first chairman of the national bank of scotland .
the family had extensive landholdings in scotland .
besides its residence in edinburgh , it owned press estate , 650 acres of farmland about 35 miles southeast of the city .
the family often stayed at press castle , the large mansion on the northern edge of the property , and alexander spent much of his childhood in the area , playing on the beach near eyemouth or fishing in the streams nearby .
even after he went to school at murcheston academy on the outskirts of edinburgh , henderson returned to press at weekends .
in 1849 he began a three year apprenticeship to become an accountant .
although he never liked the prospect of a business career , he stayed with it to please his family .
in october 1855 , however , he emigrated to canada with his wife agnes elder robertson and they settled in montreal .
henderson learned photography in montreal around the year 1857 and quickly took it up as a serious amateur .
he became a personal friend and colleague of the scottish canadian photographer william notman .
the two men made a photographic excursion to niagara falls in 1860 and they cooperated on experiments with magnesium flares as a source of artificial light in 1865 .
they belonged to the same societies and were among the founding members of the art association of montreal .
henderson acted as chairman of the associations first meeting , which was held in notmans studio on 11 january 1860 .
in spite of their friendship , their styles of photography were quite different .
while notmans landscapes were noted for their bold realism , henderson for the first 20 years of his career produced romantic images , showing the strong influence of the british landscape tradition .
his artistic and technical progress was rapid and in 1865 he published his first major collection of landscape photographs .
the publication had limited circulation , and was called canadian views and studies .
the contents of each copy vary significantly and have proved a useful source for evaluating hendersons early work .
for the most part , this text is taken verbatim from the dictionary of canadian biography volume xiv .
for design purposes , quotation marks have been omitted .
from about 1870 he dropped portraiture to specialize in landscape photography and other views .
his numerous photographs of city life revealed in street scenes , houses , and markets are alive with human activity , and although his favourite subject was landscape he usually composed his scenes around such human pursuits as farming the land , cutting ice on a river , or sailing down a woodland stream .
there was sufficient demand for these types of scenes and others he took depicting the lumber trade , steamboats and waterfalls to enable him to make a living .
there was little competing hobby or amateur photography before the late 1880s because of the time consuming techniques involved and the weight of the equipment .
people wanted to buy photographs as souvenirs of a trip or as gifts , and catering to this market , henderson had stock photographs on display at his studio for mounting , framing , or inclusion in albums .
henderson frequently exhibited his photographs in montreal and abroad , in london , edinburgh , dublin , paris , new york , and philadelphia .
he met with greater success in 1877 and 1878 in new york when he won first prizes in the exhibition held by e and ht anthony and company for landscapes using the lambertype process .
in 1878 his work won second prize at the world exhibition in paris .
in the 1870s and 1880s henderson travelled widely throughout quebec and ontario , in canada , documenting the major cities of the two provinces and many of the villages in quebec .
he was especially fond of the wilderness and often travelled by canoe on the blanche , du lievre , and other noted eastern rivers .
he went on several occasions to the maritimes and in 1872 he sailed by yacht along the lower north shore of the st lawrence river .
that same year , while in the lower st lawrence river region , he took some photographs of the construction of the intercolonial railway .
this undertaking led in 1875 to a commission from the railway to record the principal structures along the almost completed line connecting montreal to halifax .
commissions from other railways followed .
in 1876 he photographed bridges on the quebec , montreal , ottawa and occidental railway between montreal and ottawa .
in 1885 he went west along the canadian pacific railway as far as rogers pass in british columbia , where he took photographs of the mountains and the progress of construction .
in 1892 henderson accepted a full time position with the cpr as manager of a photographic department which he was to set up and administer .
his duties included spending four months in the field each year .
that summer he made his second trip west , photographing extensively along the railway line as far as victoria .
he continued in this post until 1897 , when he retired completely from photography .
when henderson died in 1913 , his huge collection of glass negatives was stored in the basement of his house .
today collections of his work are held at the national archives of canada , ottawa , and the mccord museum of canadian history , montreal .
a the recovery of natural environments in architecture by professor alan short is the culmination of 30 years of research and award winning green building design by short and colleagues in architecture , engineering , applied maths and earth sciences at the university of cambridge .
the crisis in building design is already here , said short .
policy makers think you can solve energy and building problems with gadgets .
as global temperatures continue to rise , we are going to continue to squander more and more energy on keeping our buildings mechanically cool until we have run out of capacity .
we will be arriving at branley castle in about five minutes , but before we get there i will give you a little information about the castle and what our visit will include .
so in fact theres been a castle on this site for over eleven hundred years .
the first building was a fort constructed in 914 ad for defence against danish invaders by king alfred the greats daughter , who ruled england at the time .
in the following century , after the normans conquered england , the land was given to a nobleman called richard de vere , and he built a castle there that stayed in the de vere family for over four hundred years .
however , when queen elizabeth i announced that she was going to visit the castle in 1576 it was beginning to look a bit run down , and it was decided that rather than repair the guest rooms , theyd make a new house for her out of wood next to the main hall .
she stayed there for four nights and apparently it was very luxurious , but unfortunately it was destroyed a few years later by fire .
in the seventeenth century the castle belonged to the wealthy fenys family , who enlarged it and made it more comfortable .
however , by 1982 the fenys family could no longer afford to maintain the castle , even though they received government support , and they put it on the market .
it was eventually taken over by a company who owned a number of amusement parks , but when we get there i think you will see that they have managed to retain the original atmosphere of the castle .
when you go inside , you will find that in the state rooms there are life like moving wax models dressed in costumes of different periods in the past , which even carry on conversations together .
as well as that , in every room there are booklets giving information about what the room was used for and the history of the objects and furniture it contains .
the castle parks quite extensive .
at one time sheep were kept there , and in the nineteenth century the owners had a little zoo with animals like rabbits and even a baby elephant .
nowadays the old zoo buildings are used for public displays of paintings and sculpture .
the park also has some beautiful trees , though the oldest of all , which dated back 800 years , was sadly blown down in 1987 .
now , you are free to wander around on your own until 4 .
30 , but then at the end of our visit we will all meet together at the bottom of the great staircase .
we will then go on to the long gallery , where theres a wonderful collection of photographs showing the family who owned the castle a hundred years ago having tea and cakes in the conservatory and we will then take you to the same place , where afternoon tea will be served to you .
now if you can take a look at your plans you will see branley castle has four towers , joined together by a high wall , with the river on two sides .
do not miss seeing the great hall .
thats near the river in the main tower , the biggest one , which was extended and redesigned in the eighteenth century .
if you want to get a good view of the whole castle , you can walk around the walls .
the starting points quite near the main entrance walk straight down the path until you get to the south gate , and its just there .
do not go on to the north gate theres no way up from there .
there will shortly be a show in which you can see archers displaying their skill with a bow and arrow .
the quickest way to get there is to take the first left after the main entrance and follow the path past the bridge , then you will see it in front of you at the end .
if you like animals theres also a display of hunting birds falcons and eagles and so on .
if you go from the main entrance in the direction of the south gate , but turn right before you get there instead of going through it , you will see it on your right past the first tower .
at 3 pm theres a short performance of traditional dancing on the outdoor stage .
thats right at the other side of the castle from the entrance , and over the bridge .
its about ten minutes walk or so .
and finally the shop .
its actually inside one of the towers .
but the way in is from the outside .
just take the first left after the main entrance , go down the path and take the first right .
its got some lovely gifts and souvenirs .
right , so we are just arriving .
so , rosie and martin , lets look at what you have got for your presentation on woolly mammoths .
ok , we have got a short outline here .
so its about a research project in north america ?
but we thought we needed something general about woolly mammoths in our introduction , to establish that they were related to our modern elephant , and they lived thousands of years ago in the last ice age .
maybe we could show a video clip of a cartoon about mammoths .
but thatd be a bit childish .
or we could have a diagram , it could be a timeline to show when they lived , with illustrations ?
a organisation is big business .
whether it is of our lives all those inboxes and calendars or how companies are structured , a multi billion dollar industry helps to meet this need .
we have more strategies for time management , project management and self organisation than at any other time in human history .
we are told that we ought to organise our company , our home life , our week , our day and even our sleep , all as a means to becoming more productive .
every week , countless seminars and workshops take place around the world to tell a paying public that they ought to structure their lives in order to achieve this .
this rhetoric has also crept into the thinking of business leaders and entrepreneurs , much to the delight of self proclaimed perfectionists with the need to get everything right .
the number of business schools and graduates has massively increased over the past 50 years , essentially teaching people how to organise well .
in this series of lectures about the history of weather forecasting , i will start by examining its early history that will be the subject of todays talk .
ok , so we will start by going back thousands of years .
most ancient cultures had weather gods , and weather catastrophes , such as floods , played an important role in many creation myths .
generally , weather was attributed to the whims of the gods , as the wide range of weather gods in various cultures shows .
for instance , theres the egyptian sun god ra , and thor , the norse god of thunder and lightning .
looked at in one way , everyone knows what intelligence is .
looked at in another way , no one does .
in other words , people all have unconscious notions known as implicit theories of intelligence , but no one knows for certain what it actually is .
this chapter addresses how people conceptualize intelligence , whatever it may actually be .
but why should we even care what people think intelligence is , as opposed only to valuing whatever it actually is ?
there are at least four reasons peoples conceptions of intelligence matter .
first , implicit theories of intelligence drive the way in which people perceive and evaluate their own intelligence and that of others .
to better understand the judgments people make about their own and others abilities , it is useful to learn about peoples implicit theories .
my names lucy crittenden , and i am the director of operations for an organisation that arranges volunteering in this part of the country .
i am hoping i can persuade one or two of you to become volunteers yourselves .
let me start by briefly explaining what we mean by volunteering .
volunteers are teenagers and adults who choose to spend some time , unpaid , helping other people in some way .
most volunteers devote two or three hours to this every week , while a few do much more .
the people they help may have physical or behavioural difficulties , for example .
volunteers can do all sorts of things , depending on their own abilities and interests .
if they are supporting a family thats struggling , for example , they may be able to give them tips on cooking , or recommend how to plan their budget or how to shop sensibly on their income .
they might even do some painting or wallpapering .
perhaps alongside any members of the family who are able to do it .
or even do some babysitting so that parents can go out for a while .
the benefit from volunteering is not only for the people being helped .
employers usually look favourably on someone whos given up time to help others .
significantly , most volunteers feel that what they are doing gives them a purpose in their lives .
and in my opinion , they are lucky in that respect , as many people do not have that feeling .
now id like to tell you what some of our volunteers have said about what they do , to give you an idea of the range of ways in which they can help people .
habib supports an elderly lady whos beginning to show signs of dementia .
once a week , they along with other elderly people , go to the local community centre , where a group of people come in and sing .
the songs take the listeners back to their youth , and for a little while they can forget the difficulties that they face now .
our volunteer consuela is an amazing woman .
she has difficulty walking herself , but she does not let that stop her .
she helps a couple of people with similar difficulties , who had almost stopped walking altogether .
by using herself as an example , consuela encourages them to walk more and more .
minh visits a young man who lives alone and can not leave his home on his own , so he hardly ever saw anyone .
but together they go out to the cinema , or to see friends the young man had not been able to visit for a long time .
tanya visits an elderly woman once a week .
when the woman found out that tanya is a professional dressmaker , she got interested .
tanya showed her some soft toys shed made , and the woman decided to try it herself .
and now she really enjoys it , and spends hours making toys .
they are not perhaps up to tanyas standard yet , but she gains a lot of pleasure from doing it .
alexei is a volunteer with a family that faces a number of difficulties .
by calmly talking over possible solutions with family members , hes helping them to realise that they are not helpless , and that they can do something themselves to improve their situation .
this has been great for their self esteem .
and the last volunteer i will mention , though there are plenty more , is juba .
she volunteers with a teenage girl with learning difficulties , who was not very good at talking to other people .
jubas worked very patiently with her , and now the girl is far better at expressing herself , and at understanding other people .
ok , i hope thats given you an idea of what volunteering is all about .
now id like .
more drugs than you might think are derived from , or inspired by , compounds found in living things .
looking to nature for the soothing and curing of our ailments is nothing new we have been doing it for tens of thousands of years .
you only have to look at other primates such as the capuchin monkeys who rub themselves with toxin oozing millipedes to deter mosquitoes , or the chimpanzees who use noxious forest plants to rid themselves of intestinal parasites to realise that our ancient ancestors too probably had a basic grasp of medicine .
pharmaceutical science and chemistry built on these ancient foundations and perfected the extraction , characterisation , modification and testing of these natural products .
then , for a while , modern pharmaceutical science moved its focus away from nature and into the laboratory , designing chemical compounds from scratch .
the main cause of this shift is that although there are plenty of promising chemical compounds in nature , finding them is far from easy .
securing sufficient numbers of the organism in question , isolating and characterising the compounds of interest , and producing large quantities of these compounds are all significant hurdles .
laboratory based drug discovery has achieved varying levels of success , something which has now prompted the development of new approaches focusing once again on natural products .
with the ability to mine genomes for useful compounds , it is now evident that we have barely scratched the surface of natures molecular diversity .
this realisation , together with several looming health crisis , such as antibiotic resistance , has put bioprospecting the search for useful compounds in nature firmly back on the map .
insects are the undisputed masters of the terrestrial domain , where they occupy every possible niche .
consequently , they have a bewildering array of interactions with other organisms , something which has driven the evolution of an enormous range of very interesting compounds for defensive and offensive purposes .
their remarkable diversity exceeds that of every other group of animals on the planet combined .
yet even though insects are far and away the most diverse animals in existence , their potential as sources of therapeutic compounds is yet to be realised .
from the tiny proportion of insects that have been investigated , several promising compounds have been identified .
for example , alloferon , an antimicrobial compound produced by blow fly larvae , is used as an antiviral and antitumor agent in south korea and russia .
the larvae of a few other insect species are being investigated for the potent antimicrobial compounds they produce .
meanwhile , a compound from the venom of the wasp polybia paulista has potential in cancer treatment .
why is it that insects have received relatively little attention in bioprospecting ?
firstly , there are so many insects that , without some manner of targeted approach , investigating this huge variety of species is a daunting task .
secondly , insects are generally very small , and the glands inside them that secrete potentially useful compounds are smaller still .
this can make it difficult to obtain sufficient quantities of the compound for subsequent testing .
thirdly , although we consider insects to be everywhere , the reality of this ubiquity is vast numbers of a few extremely common species .
many insect species are infrequently encountered and very difficult to rear in captivity , which , again , can leave us with insufficient material to work with .
my colleagues and i at aberystwyth university in the uk have developed an approach in which we use our knowledge of ecology as a guide to target our efforts .
the creatures that particularly interest us are the many insects that secrete powerful poison for subduing prey and keeping it fresh for future consumption .
there are even more insects that are masters of exploiting filthy habitats , such as feces and carcasses , where they are regularly challenged by thousands of microorganisms .
these insects have many antimicrobial compounds for dealing with pathogenic bacteria and fungi , suggesting that there is certainly potential to find many compounds that can serve as or inspire new antibiotics .
although natural history knowledge points us in the right direction , it does not solve the problems associated with obtaining useful compounds from insects .
fortunately , it is now possible to snip out the stretches of the insects dna that carry the codes for the interesting compounds and insert them into cell lines that allow larger quantities to be produced .
and although the road from isolating and characterising compounds with desirable qualities to developing a commercial product is very long and full of pitfalls , the variety of successful animal derived pharmaceuticals on the market demonstrates there is a precedent here that is worth exploring .
with every bit of wilderness that disappears , we deprive ourselves of potential medicines .
as much as id love to help develop a groundbreaking insect derived medicine , my main motivation for looking at insects in this way is conservation .
i sincerely believe that all species , however small and seemingly insignificant , have a right to exist for their own sake .
if we can shine a light on the darker recesses of natures medicine cabinet , exploring the useful chemistry of the most diverse animals on the planet , i believe we can make people think differently about the value of nature .
virtually every child , the world over , plays .
the drive to play is so intense that children will do so in any circumstances , for instance when they have no real toys , or when parents do not actively encourage the behavior .
in the eyes of a young child , running , pretending , and building are fun .
researchers and educators know that these playful activities benefit the development of the whole child across social , cognitive , physical , and emotional domains .
indeed , play is such an instrumental component to healthy child development that the united nations high commission on human rights recognized play as a fundamental right of every child .
as you all know , the university is planning an arts festival for later this year , and here in the music department we have planned three concerts .
these will be public performances , and the programme has just been finalised .
the theme of the festival is links between the uk and australia , and this is reflected in the music .
each concert will feature both british and australian composers .
i will tell you briefly about australian music as you probably wo not be familiar with that .
but scientists have found that it does not seem to show any signs of aging .
old worker ants can do everything just as well as the youngsters , and their brains appear just as sharp .
we get a picture that these ants really do not decline , says ysabel giraldo , who studied the ants for her doctoral thesis at boston university .
such age defying feats are rare in the animal kingdom .
i am sure you will all have a great time here .
so let me tell you a bit about whats on offer .
i will start by telling you about some of the excursions that are available for guests .
one thing you have to do while you are here is go dolphin watching .
on our boat trips , we pretty well guarantee you will see dolphins if you do not you can repeat the trip free of charge .
we organise daily trips for just 35 euros .
unfortunately there are not any places left for this afternoons trip , but come and see me to book for later in the week .
if you are energetic , id recommend our forest walk .
its a guided walk of about seven kilometres .
there will be a stop half way , and you will be provided with a drink and sandwiches .
theres some fairly steep climbs up the hills , so you need to be reasonably fit for this one , with good shoes , and bring a waterproof in case it rains .
its just 25 euros all inclusive , and its every wednesday .
then on thursdays we organise a cycle trip , which will give you all the fun of biking without the effort .
we will take you and your bike up to the top of mount larna , and leave you to bike back its a 700 metre drop in just 20 kilometres so this is not really for inexperienced cyclists as you will be going pretty fast .
and if its a clear day , you will have fantastic views .
on our local craft tour you can find out about the traditional activities in the island .
and the best thing about this trip is that its completely free .
you will be taken to a factory where jewellery is made , and also a ceramics centre .
if you want , you can buy some of the products but thats entirely up to you .
the trip starts after lunch on thursday , and you will return by 6 pm .
if you are interested in astronomy you may already know that the islands one of the best places in the world to observe the night sky .
we can offer trips to the observatory on friday for those who are interested .
they cost 90 euros per person and you will be shown the huge telescopes and have a talk from an expert , who will explain all about how they work .
afterwards we will head down to sunset beach , where you can have a dip in the ocean if you want before we head off back to the hotel .
finally , theres horse riding .
this is organised by the equestrian centre over near playa cortino and its a great experience if you are a keen horseback rider , or even if you have never been on a horse before .
they take you down to the beach , and you can canter along the sand and through the waves .
it costs 35 euros and its available every day .
so theres plenty to do in the daytime , but what about night life ?
well , the number one attractions called am usical favourites .
guests enjoy a three course meal and unlimited free drinks , and watch a fantastic show , starting with musicals set in paris and then crossing the atlantic to las vegas and finally copacabana .
at the end the cast members come down from the stage , still in their stunning costumes , and you will have a chance to chat with them .
its hugely popular , so let me know now if you are interested because its no good leaving it until the last minute .
its on friday night .
tickets are just 50 euros each , but for an extra 10 euros you can have a table right by the stage .
if youd like to go back in time , theres the castle feast on saturday evening .
its held in a twelfth century castle , and you eat in the great courtyard , with ladies in long gowns serving your food .
you are given a whole chicken each , which you eat in the medieval way , using your hands instead of cutlery , and you are entertained by competitions where the horseback riders attempt to knock one another off their horses .
then you can watch the dancers in the ballroom and join in as well if you want .
ok , so now if anyone .
in my view , it is perfectly possible for many species of animals living in zoos or wildlife parks to have a quality of life as high as , or higher than , in the wild .
animals in good zoos get a varied and high quality diet with all the supplements required , and any illnesses they might have will be treated .
their movement might be somewhat restricted , but they have a safe environment in which to live , and they are spared bullying and social ostracism by others of their kind .
they do not suffer from the threat or stress of predators , or the irritation and pain of parasites or injuries .
the average captive animal will have a greater life expectancy compared with its wild counterpart , and will not die of drought , of starvation or in the jaws of a predator .
is everything terrible , or are things just very , very bad ?
rochman is a member of the national center for ecological analysis and synthesiss marine debris working group , a collection of scientists who study , among other things , the growing problem of marine debris , also known as ocean trash .
plenty of studies have sounded alarm bells about the state of marine debris .
in a recent paper published in the journal ecology , rochman and her colleagues set out to determine how many of those perceived risks are real .
often , rochman says , scientists will end a paper by speculating about the broader impacts of what they have found .
for example , a study could show that certain seabirds eat plastic bags , and go on to warn that whole bird populations are at risk of dying out .
in todays class i am going to talk about marine archaeology , the branch of archaeology focusing on human interaction with the sea , lakes and rivers .
its the study of ships , cargoes , shipping facilities , and other physical remains .
i will give you an example , then go on to show how this type of research is being transformed by the use of the latest technology .
atlit yam was a village on the coast of the eastern mediterranean , which seems to have been thriving until around 7000 bc .
the residents kept cattle , caught fish and stored grain .
renewable energy captured from the wind , sun , earths heat , tides , and from small dams is drawing record levels of investment as poor and entire nations alike seek clean , abundant ways to fuel economic growth .
global investment in renewable energy set a new record of 30 billion in 2004 , according to a new report from the renewable energy policy network for the 21st century .
technologies such as wind , solar , biomass , geothermal , and small hydro now provide 160 gigawatts of electricity generating capacity about four per cent of the world total the report said .
they are growing at rates of around 20 30 per cent per year , however , compared to two or three per cent for oil and gas .
global status report .
martinot , a senior fellow at washington , dc based think tank worldwatch institute and a lecturer at tsinghua university in beijing , said renewable energy has attracted some of the worlds largest companies , including general electric , siemens , sharp , and royal dutch shell .
the report estimated that nearly 40 million households worldwide heat their water with solar collectors , most of them installed in the last five years .
altogether , renewable energy industries provide 1 .
7 million jobs , most of them skilled and well paid .
small hydro , wind , solar , geothermal , and biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel .
power generation , hot water and space heating , transportation fuels , and rural energy supplies .
renewable energy is gaining in popularity because it is considered to be in infinite supply unlike oil , coal , and gas and because it involves little or no pollution compared to those fossil fuels .
scientists blame the burning of fossil fuels for the release of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that stoke global climate changes , which in turn are intensifying droughts in some parts of the world , floods and storms in others , and the spread of tropical diseases to temperate zones .
additionally , renewable energy could empower millions of poor and vulnerable people who lack access to reliable , affordable , and clean modern energy services , un secretary kofi annan said a message to the beijing international renewable energy conference , which opened monday .
annan said that rising oil prices have hit oil importing developing countries especially hard and underscore the need for alternative energy supplies .
according to the ren21 report , government support for renewable energy is growing rapidly .
at least 48 countries now have some type of renewable energy promotion policy , including 14 developing countries .
typically , they include targets to ensure that renewable sources generate 5 30 per cent of energy use in a given country by around 2010 2012 .
the renewable sectors prospects appeared to receive a further boost monday , when china announced it was raising its target for reliance on renewable energy even as it acknowledged that coal would remain is primary source for electricity for decades to come .
renewable energy should account for 15 per cent of national consumption by 2020 .
china had previously aimed to get 10 per cent of its energy from renewable sources by 2020 .
mandates for blending biofuels into vehicle fuels have been enacted in 20 plus states and provinces worldwide as well as in three key countries brazil , china , and india the report said .
government leadership has ensured market success , according to ren21 , which is composed of representatives of governments and non governmental organizations .
market leaders in renewable energy in 2004 included brazil in biofuels , china in solar hot water , germany in solar electricity , and spain in wind power , the report said .
the fastest growing energy technology in the world is grid connected solar photo voltaic , existing capacity of which blossomed by sixty per cent per year from 2000 2004 , to cover more than 400 000 rooftops in japan , germany , and the united states , it found .
wind power came second , with generating capacity growing by 28 per cent per last year with almost seventeen gigawatts installed as of 2004 .
production of ethanol , biodiesel , and other biofuels exceeded 33 billion litres in 2004 , when ethanol displaced about three per cent of the 1200 billion litres of gasoline produced globally , .
an estimated 500 million goes to developing countries each year as development assistance for renewable projects , training , and market support , with the german development finance group proving the majority of these funds , and dozens of other donors and programs providing the rest , the report said .
more than 4,5 million green power consumers in europe , the united states , canada , australia , and japan purchased renewable electricity in 2004 , it added .
asia is seen as a vast market for renewable energy as it seeks to meet growing demand for power to feed rapid economic expansion amid runaway oil prices .
for those of a certain age and educational background , it is hard to think of higher education without thinking of ancient institutions .
some universities are of a venerable age the university of bologna was founded in 1088 , the university of oxford in 1096 and many of them have a strong sense of tradition .
the truly old ones make the most of their pedigrees , and those of a more recent vintage work hard to create an aura of antiquity .
and yet these tradition loving institutions are currently enduring a thunderstorm of changes so fundamental that some say the very idea of the university is being challenged .
universities are experimenting with new ways of funding , forging partnerships with private companies and engaging in mergers and acquisitions .
taxonomic history has been made this week , at least according to the world wildlife fund , a conservation group .
scientists have described a new species of clouded leopard from the tropical forests of indonesia with spots smaller than those of other clouded leopards , with fur a little darker and with a double , as opposed to a partial double stripe down its back .
however , no previously unknown beast has suddenly leapt out from the forest .
instead , some scientists have proposed a change in the official taxonomic accounting system of clouded leopards .
falling populations the despair of state pension systems are often regarded with calmness , even a secret satisfaction , by ordinary people .
europeans no longer need large families to gather the harvest or to look after parents .
they have used their good fortune to have fewer children , thinking this will make their lives better .
much of europe is too crowded as it is .
is this at that is going on germans have been agonizing about recent european union estimates suggesting that 30 percent of german women are , and will remain , childless .
germany does not collect figures like this .
even if the share is 25 percent , as other surveys suggest , it is by far the highest in europe .
germany is something of an oddity in this .
in most countries with tow fertility , young women have their first child late , and stop at one .
in germany , women with children often have two or three , but many have none at all .
germany is also odd in experiencing low fertility for such a long time .
europe is demographically polarised .
countries in the north and west saw fertility fall early , in the 1960s .
recently , they have seen it stabilise or rise back towards replacement lever .
countries in the south and east , on the other hand , saw fertility rates fall much faster , more recently .
germany combines both .
its fertility rate fell below 2 in 1971 .
however , it has stayed low and is still only just above 1 .
this challenges the notion that european fertility is likely to stabilise at tolerable levels .
it raises questions about whether the low birth rates of italy and poland , say , really are , as some have argued , merely temporary .
the list of explanations for why german fertility has not rebounded is long .
poor child care .
unusually extended higher education .
inflexible labour laws .
high youth unemployment .
and non economic or cultural factors .
one german writer , gunter grass , wrote a novel , headbirths , in 1982 , about harm andd rte peters , a model couple who disport themselves on the beaches of asia rather than invest time and trouble in bringing up a baby .
they keep a cat , writes mr grass , and still have no child .
the novel is subtitled the germans are dying out .
with the exception of this cultural factor , none of these features is peculiar to germany .
if social and economic explanations account for persistent low fertility there , then they may well produce the same persistence elsewhere .
the reason for hoping otherwise is that the initial decline in southern and eastern europe was drastic , and may be reversible .
in the mediterranean , demographic decline was associated with freeing young women from the constraints of traditional catholicism , which encouraged large families .
in eastern europe , it was associated with the collapse in living standards and the ending of pro birth policies .
in both regions , as such temporary factors fade , fertility rates might , in principle , be expected to rise .
indeed , they may already be stabilising in italy and spain .
germany tells you that reversing these trends can be hard .
in 1979 , eurobarometer asked europeans how many children they would like .
the traditional two child idea persisted even when people were not delivering it .
this may have reflected old habits of mind .
or people may really be having fewer children than they claim to want .
a recent paper suggests how this might come about .
if women postpone their first child past their mid 30s , it may be too late to have a second even if they want one .
a one child policy by example rather than coercion , as it were .
if women wait to start a family until they are established at work , they may end up postponing children longer than they might otherwise have chosen .
when birth rates began to fall in europe , this was said to be a simple matter of choice .
that was true , but it is possible that fertility may overshoot below what people might naturally have chosen .
for many years , politicians have argued that southern europe will catch up from its fertility decline because women , having postponed their first child , will quickly have a second and third .
the overshoot theory suggests there may be only partial recuperation .
postponement could permanently tower fertility , not just redistribute it across time .
there is a twist .
if people have fewer children than they claim to want , how they see the family may change too .
research by tomas sobotka of the vienna institute of demography suggests that , after decades of low fertility , a quarter of young german men and a fifth of young women say they have no intention of having children and think that this is fine .
when eurobarometer repeated its poll about ideal family size in 2001 , support for the two child model had fallen everywhere .
the local natural foods grocers .
there , they gather in groups of ten or more sometimes , smitten by a marketing atmosphere that links attractiveness to eating well .
when time comes to buy something even as small as a chocolate treat , they feel good knowing a farmer somewhere probably received a good price .
food is something you need to stay alive , says eighth grader emma lewis .
paying farmers well is really important because if we did not have any unprocessed food , wed all be living on candy .
climate change is with us .
a decade ago , it was conjecture .
now the future is unfolding before our eyes .
canadas inuit see it in disappearing arctic ice and permafrost .
the shantytown dwellers of latin america and southern asia see it in lethal storms and floods .
europeans see it in disappearing glaciers , forest fires and fatal heat waves .
scientists see it in tree rings , ancient coral and bubbles trapped in ice cores .
its hard to imagine that only a decade or so ago many of the nations canals were little more than the last resting place for abandoned shopping trolleys .
theres still work to be done , but their transformation has been remarkable .
projects such as castlefield in manchester and brindley place in birmingham have transformed city centre canals from stagnant reminders of a fading industrial past to the epitome of urban cool .
however , 21st century priorities dictate that the rehabilitation of this 18th century motorway system can not stop there .
canals and navigable rivers form a major transport network , in need of only piecemeal investment , and with the spare capacity to take away the need for hundreds of thousands of lorry journeys .
the worlds factory , it turns out , has a sizeable canteen attached , not to mention an office block and shopping mall .
last months official revision of chinas gross domestic product revealed an economy worth 16 trillion yuan in 2004 , 17 percent more than previously thought .
some 265 billion of the increase 93 percent of it was ascribed to the services sector .
as a result , services share of the economy has jumped by nine percentage points , to 41 percent , compared with 46 percent for manufacturing and 13 percent for primary industries .
where has all this extra activity come from ?
three striking facts highlight the dramatic shift in recent years in the relative economic balance of first world and third world economies .
last year , according to our estimates , emerging economies produced slightly more than half of world output measured at purchasing power parity .
second , they also accounted for more than half of the increase in global gdp in current dollar terms .
and third , perhaps most striking of all , the 32 biggest emerging economies grew in both 2004 and 2005 .
every previous year during the past three decades saw at least one country in recession if not a deep crisis .
british universities seek quantity and quality .
pity the poor british professor .
once upon a time in the halcyon 1960s , his students were a privileged few , an academic elite drawn from the top four percent of the population .
new university arrivals were literate and numerate .
crimes against grammar were the exception rather than the rule .
according to a new comprehensive survey of british university faculty and staff , all that has changed .
they incoming students do not know how to write essays they just assemble bits from the internet , commented a disgruntled oxford tutor .
even the cream of candidates do not necessarily know how to use an apostrophe , added another .
the decline in student competence parallels a dramatic increase in british university and college enrolment over the past decade , spurred in recent years by prime minister tony blairs push to get half of all young britons a university degree .
as professors and business owners alike decry the quality of university students and graduates , more than a few observers are questioning the wisdom of packing ivory towers with the masses .
students themselves may begin to question whether higher education is overvalued , with tuition rates set to rise steeply next fall .
british universities and colleges are teeming with almost 2 . 5 million young adults , a 12 fold increase of 1960s numbers , and up almost fifty percent over the past decade alone .
a report published last month for the association of graduate recruiters found that almost half of the top 200 employers of university graduates were unhappy with the calibre of candidates .
the recent survey , conducted by oxford university and universities colleges admissions service , listed a catalogue of complaints about freshmen which had led in some cases to year long courses being deferred by a year .
you are getting students going to higher education now who would not have done so 20 years ago , and in some ways thats a good thing , as it widens opportunity , says geoff hayward , lecturer at oxford universitys educational studies department .
there were , he adds , genuine concerns about young people and their capacity to benefit from higher education .
mr hayward says , part of the problem lies in the way teenagers are taught in school , prepped assiduously for exams at the expense of broader understanding .
despite the students academic failings , the oxford ucas survey did find they were more tech savvy and better at oral communication than their predecessors .
nevertheless , concerns about the state of britains university system are deepening this year as its funding faces one of its biggest shake ups in decades .
following the lead of america , australia , and new zealand among others , universities will introduce a new annual 3000 tuition fee for students next year nearly triple the current fee .
the charge , brought in by the government to drum up cash for a perennially under funded sector , is expected to saddle graduates with debts of at least 12000 , making some think twice about whether to study .
already , official figures show the number of university applicants fell this year for the first time in six years , by 3 , 4 percent .
we have said all along that this policy will deter prospective students from going to university , says julian nicholds , nus vice president for education .
about 13000 fewer prospective students have applied this year , and that is only attributable to the threat of debt in the future .
for the government , the fall in applicants is slightly awkward .
tony blairs labour administration has committed itself to boosting the number of young people in higher education to fifty percent by 2010 .
that might prove tricky if teenagers and their parents are deterred by the burgeoning cost of study .
alison wolf is an expert at kings college london and author of a book called does education matter , concedes that the added fees might make students think twice but says the price increase wo not turn them away .
when a degree has become as important as ours , all the evidence is that fees will not have an impact because its still economically worthwhile to get a degree .
a little debt will be worth it in the long run , she says .
bill rammell , higher education minister , says blairs target of fifty percent enrolment is an economic and social necessity .
he also points out that by 2012 , an estimated 6 , 8 million graduate jobs will have been created , requiring increasing numbers of university educated workers .
it is therefore crucial that we are able to produce sufficient numbers of highly skilled , employable graduates to fill those posts , says mr rammell .
most industrialized countries have targets to expand university numbers .
however , wolf says the governments fifty percent target is nuts .
there is no evidence that it is important for economic growth , she contends .
switzerland is the richest country in europe and has one of the lowest numbers of graduates .
a market based society , she says , is capable of working out what kind of workers it needs without government mandated quotas , which may end up encouraging people to go to university who might do better pursuing vocational endeavours .
it would make more sense for society if lots of people did not go to university for the wrong reasons , she says , but as long as employers continue to use degrees as a filter device for screening candidates , demand for degrees will remain high .
a gabriele dionisi , a 38 year old italian computer wizard living in london , is a true individualist when it comes to food .
he has been known to live for days on dry toast and mashed potato .
hes also very fond of tinned mackerel with biscuits , washed down with , say , an apple and tomato milkshake .
for some unfathomable reason he sometimes has problems with his guts .
then he makes himself a hot cup of camomile tea with honey and half a spoonful of chilli flakes .
its a new phenomenon called cyber monday .
on november 28 , millions of americans returned to work after the thanksgiving holiday and fired up their office computers to take advantage of high speed internet links and continue the arduous task of hunting for christmas presents .
visits to some retail websites more than doubled , and visa reported that online spending by its cardholders grew by 26 percent compared with the same day a year ago .
despite concerns about a fall in consumer confidence putting the brake on store sales , online purchases are soaring in most countries .
something else is happening , too .
increasingly , the websites run by conventional retailers once considered dinosaurs of the bricks and mortar age are growing the fastest .
indeed , on thanksgiving day itself , the number of visitors to wal marts website exceeded those visiting amazon the first time that has ever happened , says hitwise , which monitors internet usage .
online sales in america are expected to grow to more than 19 billion in the crucial two months running up to christmas 24 percent more than the same period last year according to comscore networks , a research firm .
online sales of toys , computer games , clothing , and jewellery are all more than 30 percent higher .
in many countries , the websites run by ebay and amazon get the most visitors .
both are considered pure internet plays , since they have no physical shops .
their business models have changed markedly , and they now resemble online versions of vast department stores , where thousands of big and small third party merchants also offer their wares .
during thanksgiving in 2004 , amazon for the first time sold more consumer electronics than it sold books .
amazon was the company that proved online retailing could be a huge business and it still leads the pack .
things are changing quickly .
the online rise of mighty wal mart , the worlds biggest retailer , is being closely followed by its chief supermarket rival , target , which now operates the fourth most popular retail website in america .
in britain , argos , a catalogue merchant , is the third most popular retail site , followed by tesco , the countrys biggest supermarket chain .
europeans are surfing the web in record numbers and almost half now visit retail websites , especially those of traditional merchants .
according to nielsen netratings , the leading retail websites in europe include germanys tchibo , a diversified chain .
otto , a german mail order specialist .
and fnac , a french high street favourite .
far from wrecking retailers businesses , the web plays to their strengths .
shopping comparison sites , including americas shopzilla and ciao in europe , are among the fastest growing destinations on the web .
these sites allow users to compare products , read reviews and most important of all see who is offering the lowest prices .
they make money from advertising or charging retailers when users click on a link to the retailers website .
with huge economies of scale , it is hardly surprising that giants such as wal mart often emerge as the vendor offering the cheapest prices .
besides attracting an online purchase , shopping comparison searches can also be used by ordinary retailers as a relatively cheap way to advertise and attract consumers to their physical stores .
the traditional retailers are finding many other advantages in expanding their stores online .
one is that in cyberspace , even the biggest super centre is unconstrained by planning laws or dogged by protests , as wal mart often is when it tries to expand offline .
both wal mart and target also use the web to test the market for certain products before they send them to their stores .
conventional shopkeepers might be late coming to the internet , but they now realise that they can offer more to their customers online , and that the technology required to do so is relatively easy to use , says michael silverstein of the boston consulting group .
retailers are starting to recognise that their most profitable customers .
find the convenience of an online offering complementary to an in store experience , he says .
as examples of successful exponents of this in america , mr silverstein points to neiman marcus , which has taken a lead in online top end fashion , victorias secret in lingerie , and circuit city in consumer electronics .
circuit city was a pioneer of the pick up in store option , which is proving increasingly popular with internet shoppers .
around half the customers buying goods online from circuit city collect their purchases at a shop .
if goods ordered online or over the telephone are not available for collection at a local store within 24 minutes of purchase , the customer can claim a 24 gift voucher .
apart from instant consumer gratification , why would someone want the convenience of buying online only to trek to a store to take delivery ?
it appears , there are  many reasons .
some people want to examine items before they accept them .
some want to save on delivery costs .
others want to avoid hanging around for the delivery man to call .
for many , the chief reason is that they trust a big retailing brand with a local store not least because they will know where goods can be returned if there is a problem .
with more than 3 , 700 stores in america alone , this hands wal mart another big advantage .
it is developing services that link the web with its stores , such as e mailing digital pictures and picking up the prints .
does this mean retailing giants will come to dominate the web just as they do the high street ?
some might carve out large chunks of cyberspace .
tesco , for instance , has a huge 30 percent share of the british grocery market .
nielsen netratings says almost 70 percent of online shoppers plan to buy groceries this christmas from .
even the big traditional retailers still face competition online .
for instance , wal mart may have more than five times the annual sales of target , but targets website is growing faster and , according to some analysts , the average value of an online sale at target is roughly three times more than one made online at wal mart .
this is one reason why wal mart is now offering more upmarket goods on its website , including diamond rings .
so , should amazon have stuck to books ?
jeff bezos , its founder and chief executive , does not think so and likes to plug his site , with its growing army of other traders , as offering earths biggest selection .
nevertheless , he is spreading his bets .
these days , amazon also sells its e commerce experience , helping to run the websites of big , traditional retailers such as target and britains marks spencer .
its oxbridge season again , and thousands of applicants are anxiously waiting to be called to interview .
independent schools will be putting the final polish on candidates who may well have already had a years intensive preparation .
candidates , if they are lucky , might get a five minute mock interview with one of their teachers .
at the cotswold school , in bourton on the water , a gloucestershire comprehensive , its a different story .
here , the eight oxbridge candidates , all boys , are being given intensive social grooming courtesy of rachel holland , a former independent school maths teacher and housemistress , who has dipped along in her high heels and smart , pink linen , two piece to give them a mornings tuition in the lost arts of sitting , standing , walking , making small talk , dressing well and handing round canapes .
it might sound the sort of thing that would have skeptical teenagers totting in their chairs and rotting their eyes skywards , but rachel holland is warm , engaging , funny and direct .
people , she tells the boys bluntly , always judge others within a few seconds of meeting them , which is why first impressions are so vital .
step by step she takes the group through a good meet and greet how to smile , make eye contact , and give a firm handshake .
lolling in chairs is a no no , she says , even when you are waiting outside an interview room .
and do not sit with your legs really far apart , either .
how do you enter an interview room ?
rachel holland demonstrates , miming dosing the door quietly behind her , smiling warmly , walking confidently across the carpet , and shaking each interviewers hand as she says her name .
then the boys do it , over and over again head up , do not rush it , turn and sit down , but remember , do not sit down until you are invited to .
imagine your interviewers have had a bad day .
you need to brighten it up for them .
you need to announce to them that you are here .
here i am , i am so and so , and i am really pleased to see you .
pay attention to me .
i want my place and you should give it to me !
rachel holland set up rachel holland associates to teach social skills after realising the popularity of the workshops she devised for the pupils of millfield , the school where she was working .
her courses range from a three hour workshop on basic manners for seven to 10 year olds , to a one term course for school leavers on etiquette and life skills , which covers all aspects of modern life including how to walk in high heels , accept a compliment , write a thank you letter , and know when not to use a mobile phone .
every child , no matter what their background , needs to be given social skills , she says .
everyone needs to know how to be polite and well mannered .
once upon a time teaching these things was considered a parents job , but todays parents , she says , are often as confused as their offspring .
they ask me , what should my child wear to interview ?
then i get lots of questions about eating .
young people say if theres lots of cutlery , what should i do ?
they find the idea of , say , eating a meal with a future employer very intimidating .
i think social skills need to be taught as a proper subject in schools , not an add on , although it helps that i am coming in from outside and am not their maths or physics teacher .
so far she has taken her new company into four independent schools and has now come to the cotswold school to try out her skills in the state sector by working with this small oxbridge group , and running a larger workshop for 11 year olds .
if they are doing this , why should not my children have some of it , too ?
neither she , nor the boys , think for a minute that knowing how to hand round canapes is the key to getting into oxbridge .
nevertheless , the effect of the workshop is astonishing .
over the course of the morning the candidates are transformed from amiable , lounging schoolboys into young men with palpable presence who both charm and command your attention .
holland , watching the action , straightens her back in her chair .
this is really , really practical stuff .
i only wish someone had told me all this when i was young .
the boys , who come from a wide span of social backgrounds , soak up the non stop stream of tips , ask lots of questions , and have fun swaggering up and down to music , trying to inject more confidence and authority into the way they walk .
however they find teaming how to make small talk in twos , and then threes , a tricky business .
its hard work , agrees rachel holland .
you have got to store some questions in your head .
you have got to fake it .
you have got to look relaxed and confident .
and remember the most important thing smile !
after a break , she turns to clothes .
the boys are told to buy the best quality they can afford , to know their measurements a tape measure is whipped out and they are all measured for sleeve length and neck size and always to try and buy a suit with vents at the back .
it allows you to move .
it really makes a difference .
they are told when people wear evening dress , what smart casual consists of and how come as you are invitations tend not to mean what they say .
rachel holland asks them when would you wear a morning suit ?
once again , southern africa is facing a severe food crisis .
it is a chronic problem and should not be .
at the trinity hospital in malawis southern nsanje district , three year old mboyi is lying listless , his face against the wall .
his belly is badly bloated and skin is peeling off his legs .
his mother explains that the family has not been able to harvest anything this year , due to poor rains .
it can be hard to guess someones exact age .
a range of factors may leave marks on our appearance , how much sleep we have had even the way we dress and our view of ourselves .
the good news is that just as these factors can add years on to your appearance , it follows that they can also take years off .
we do not always have control over some of those social factors that can make us look younger , but there are other steps we can take to try to stop the ravages of age .
another bad weather in a bad month for the food and drink industry .
sunny delight , formerly the uks third largest selling drink , is to be taken off the shelves by asda after plummeting sales , the supermarket said at the weekend .
yesterday , it was the turn of northern foods , makers of biscuits , pies , pizzas and ready meals , to admit that the trend to healthier food was causing it problems .
the companys chief executive , pat odriscol , issued its second profits warning in two months as its biscuit sales slumped by 12 percent year on year in january and february , and pastry sates by 11 percent .
shares fell 17 percent to a five year low of 1 , 08p .
the national consumer councils food expert , sue dibb , said the news showed companies would have to change to survive .
it looks as though we have reached the tipping point on food .
our research showed that two thirds of consumers have made change to what they eat in the last year .
supermarkets are getting competitive about health .
companies are having to wake up or lose their customers .
foods analyst clive black , of shore capital , said that a sea change in eating habits was behind the industrys problems .
anyone who has not realised over recent years that fruit and veg are good and doughnuts and cream cakes are bad must have been living on the moon , he said .
but over the past year or so , the penny really seems to have dropped .
like other supermarket groups , asda said it had seen a marked change in buying patterns in the past year .
customers want more natural and authentic products , jon bett , the trading manager for chilled drinks , said .
the market for carbonated drinks has declined 7 to 8 percent in the year , while the juice market has doubled and water sales have grown phenomenally .
the trend had been driven by media coverage and the jamie oliver effect , he added .
the decline of sunny delight is matched by the fall of other soft drinks two weeks ago , britvic admitted a severe decline in sales of its carbonated drinks , which include tango , 7up and pepsi although the fate of the sunnyd brand has attracted particular schadenfreude .
sunny delight burst on to the market in 1998 and reached the league table of top brands in 1999 by selling itself as a healthy drink , although its original recipe was only 5 percent juice with plenty of sugar and water as well as vegetable oil , thickeners , added vitamins , flavourings , and colourings .
the health watchdog the food commission accused then owners procter and gamble of a con for selling it from fridge cabinets .
sunny delight syndrome .
a girl of five had turned bright yellow after drinking five litres a day .
she was overdosing on beta carotene , the additive used to give the drink its orange colour , and the pigment was being deposited in her skin .
by coincidence television adverts at the time showed two white snowmen raiding the fridge for sunnyd and turning bright orange .
its collapse was as dramatic as its rise to fame , and gerber foods soft drinks , which bought distribution rights to the brand in 2005 , has been unable to reverse its fortunes despite efforts to reduce the sugar content , change the recipe , and introduce new variations , including a bright green apple and kiwi flavour .
kath dalmeny , the food commissions senior policy adviser , greeted the news of sunnyds delisting with satisfaction .
there is no appetite any more for products that claim to be healthy but have no ral nutritional value .
sunny delight did not live up to its claim and parents have seen through that kind of marketing .
gerber funds suit drinks and sunnyd was suffering from an inherited and unjustified image problem .
in asda , two thirds of our sales come from no added sugar versions , which are up by 1 percent year on year .
but market research figures from the company ac nielsen show that the pressure on sunny delight and northern foods is part of a wider trend .
fascination is universal for what aaron spelling , a prolific producer of american soap operas , once called rich people having problems that money can not solve .
but the fascinated in star struck britain have no equal .
the country has a profusion of titles devoted to chronicling even the smallest doings of celebrities .
britons buy almost half as many celebrity magazines as americans do , despite having a population that is only one fifth the size .
celebrity news often makes the front page of british tabloid newspapers , providing a formidable distribution channel for stories about celebrity sex , drugs and parenthood .
the countrys younger generation is shedding submissive attitudes , wants careers , and longs for wealth .
and marketers are paying attention .
when the first american music videos and popular tv shows began appearing in indian homes in the early 1990s thanks to satellite and cable , many pundits predicted indian society would never be the same .
for the first time , female viewers saw independent , successful women and fun , sensitive guys .
sex and divorce were openly discussed in these tv imports and couples kissed passionately then still a taboo in indian tv shows and movies .
indeed , the impact on younger generations of indian women has been profound .
a generation back , women would sacrifice themselves and believed in saving .
today , it is spend , spend , spend .
it is ok for a woman to want something for herself , and people will accept it if she goes out into a mans world making a statement .
whereas indian women traditionally have been submissive to parents and husbands and valued frugality and modesty , a number of sociological studies show that young indian females now prize financial independence , freedom to decide when to marry and have children , and glamorous careers .
if a child becomes obese , their body processes can change .
some of these may be difficult or even impossible to alter in adulthood .
fat cells are laid down in the first few years of life .
if fat is stored quickly , more fat cells are created .
so an obese child can have up to three times as many as a normal child .
remember that your child is likely to model themselves on your behaviour , so choose healthy food options whenever possible .
offering a child a choice of food is generally not a good idea .
research has shown that when there is more choice available , we tend to eat more .
even the sight or smell of tempting food can override the bodys natural mechanism of regulation , so we eat when we are not hungry .
if you do decide to offer your child a choice , keep the options to an absolute minimum .
if the past is a foreign country , the version that used to be taught in irish schools had a simple landscape .
for 750 years after the first invasion by an english king , ireland suffered oppression .
then at easter 1916 , her brave sons rose against the tyrant .
their leaders were shot but their cause prevailed , and ireland lived happily ever after .
awkward episodes , like the conflict between rival irish nationalist groups in 1922 23 , were airbrushed away .
the civil war was just an embarrassment , it was hardly mentioned , says jimmy joyce , who went to school in dublin in the 1950s .
in the 2002 football world cup , france , the reigning world champions , suffered a humiliating defeat to unfancied senegal .
all 11 members of the victorious senegalese team had played for european clubs .
they were not alone .
by 2000 , the first and second divisions of europes leagues had poached enough african players to field 70 teams .
so , have greedy 9 european clubs deprived senegal of its best footballers , or has the prospect of a lucrative career in europe encouraged more senegalese to take up the beautiful game ?
dark chocolate used to be an acquired taste .
the trouble is , we have all acquired it .
as cocoa prices soar , and a shortage looms , our changing tastes could be threatening the very source of our pleasure .
a 25 percent jump in dark chocolate sales in the uk pretty much speaks for itself .
as a nation we are turning our backs on the bland taste of milk chocolate , which is often saturated with vegetable oil .
the ping of a text message has never sounded so sweet .
in what is being touted as a world first , kenyas biggest mobile operator is allowing subscribers to send cash to other phone users by sms .
known as pesa , or mobile money , the service is expected to revolutionise banking in a country where more than 80 percent of people are excluded from the formal financial sector .
apart from transferring cash a service much in demand among urban kenyans supporting relatives in rural areas customers of the safaricom network will be able to keep up to 50 , 000 shillings in a virtual account on their handsets .
developed by vodafone , which holds a 35 percent share in safaricom , pesa was formally launched in kenya two weeks ago .
more than 10 , 000 people have signed up for the service , with around 8 million shillings transferred so far , mostly in tiny denominations .
safaricoms executives are confident that growth will be strong in kenya , and later across africa .
we are effectively giving people atm cards without them ever having to open a real bank account , said michael joseph , chief executive of safaricom , who called the money transfer concept the next big thing in mobile telephony .
pesas is simple .
there is no need for a new handset or sim card .
to send money , you hand over the cash to a registered agent typically a retailer who credits your virtual account .
you then send between 100 shillings via text message to the desired recipient even someone on a different mobile network who cashes it at an agent by entering a secret code and showing id .
a commission of up to 170 shillings is paid by the recipient but it compares favourably with fees levied by the major banks , whose services are too expensive for most of the population .
mobile phone growth in kenya , as in most of africa , has been remarkable , even among the rural poor .
in june 1999 , kenya had 15 , 000 mobile subscribers .
today , it has nearly 8 million out of a population of 35 million , and the two operators networks are as extensive as the access to banks is limited .
safaricom says it is not so much competing with financial services companies as filling a void .
in time , pesa will allow people to borrow and repay money , and make purchases .
companies will be able to pay salaries directly into workers phones something that has already attracted the interest of larger employers , such as the tea companies , whose workers often have to be paid in cash as they do not have bank accounts .
there are concerns about security , but safaricom insists that even if someones phone is stolen , the pin system prevents unauthorised withdrawals .
joseph said the only danger is sending cash to the wrong mobile number and the recipient redeeming it straight away .
the project is being watched closely by mobile operators around the world as a way of targeting the multibillion pound international cash transfer industry long dominated by companies such as western union and moneygram .
remittances sent from nearly 200 million migrant workers to developing countries totalled 102 billion last year , according to the world bank .
the gsm association , which represents more than 700 mobile operators worldwide , believes this could quadruple by 2012 if transfers by sms become the norm .
vodafone has entered a partnership with citigroup that will soon allow kenyans in the uk to send money home via text message .
the charge for sending 50 is expected to be about 3 , less than a third of what some traditional services charge .
more than a million people are likely to be disappointed by their experience of the governments attempts to improve the democratic process .
they may have signed an online petition against road pricing , but ministers are determined to push ahead with plans to make it more expensive to drive .
the government is convinced that this is the only way to reduce congestion and the environmental damage caused by motoring .
why wait until you are forced off the road by costly charges .
you may enjoy the convenience of your car , but the truth is that for huge numbers of people , owning a car makes little financial sense .
why are your economies so vibrant ?
answers include young and swelling populations , decreased debt , growing cities , emerging middle class consumer sectors , evolving markets and , of course , chinas rise .
women and their increasing role in asias economics .
the idea is that the more opportunities women have , the more vibrant economies are and , consequently , the less need there is to amass a huge public debt to boost growth .
it is an idea bolstered by a new survey by mastercard international inc , which compares the socio economic level of women with men in asia pacific nations .
despite conference jeers , job cuts , and a financial crisis , health secretary patricia hewitt may find a reason to smile this week , as the nhs was named one of the top places to work by students .
among engineering , science , and it students , the health service was ranked second in this years univer sum uk graduate survey of ideal employers , a leap of 54 places from last year .
the annual survey , conducted in the uk since 1997 , canvassed the opinions of more than 7700 final and penultimate year students studying for degrees in business , engineering , science , it , and the humanities , at 39 universities , between january and march this year .
each student was presented with a list of 130 employers , nominated by students through a separate process , from which they selected the five they considered to be ideal employers .
the universum list is based on the frequency of an organisation being selected as an ideal employer , following a weighting process .
despite conference jeers , job cuts , and a financial crisis , health secretary patricia hewitt may find a reason to smile this week , as the nhs was named one of the top places to work by students .
among engineering , science , and it students , the health service was ranked second in this years univer sum uk graduate survey of ideal employers , a leap of 54 places from last year .
the annual survey , conducted in the uk since 1997 , canvassed the opinions of more than 7700 final and penultimate year students studying for degrees in business , engineering , science , it , and the humanities , at 39 universities , between january and march this year .
each student was presented with a list of 130 employers , nominated by students through a separate process , from which they selected the five they considered to be ideal employers .
the universum list is based on the frequency of an organisation being selected as an ideal employer , following a weighting process .
if you are into technology , you are living in wonderful times .
things are developing in leaps and bounds , especially gadgets .
let us look at the technology that is set to break through .
backyard stargazing goes seriously hi tech with the celestron skyscout , which was judged to be the best of innovations at the new york consumer electronics show press preview event in november .
it is not difficult to see why .
the skyscout is a hand held viewing device that is capable of finding and identifying more than 6000 celestial objects visible to the naked eye , thus transforming the night sky into your own personal planetarium .
using gps technology and a substantial celestial database , the camcorder sized skyscout enables stargazers to point the device at any visible object in the sky , press a button , and then listen to a commentary .
for the truly celestially challenged , if you want to view a star or planet but do not have a clue which bit of the heavens to look in , do not despair .
the skyscouts locate feature will guide you to it using illuminated arrows in the viewfinder .
this amazing mobile jukebox is due out early in 2006 .
nokias n91 looks set to be in a class of its own as a multimedia mobile phone .
it will play music , take photos , surf the web and download videos , store contact details , and generally organise your life .
the robust little phone , resplendent in its stainless steel case , is the first nokia to be equipped with a hard drive , which means that it can store up to 3000 songs .
the n91 , which has a hi fi quality headset and remote control , supports a wide range of digital music formats , including mp3 , real , wav , and wma .
it uses wireless technology to allow users to find and buy music from the operators music store .
you can also drag and drop music from your pc to the n91 and manage and share playlists .
if you can find the time , you can get on the blower , too .
seiko spectrum e paper watch .
the seiko spectrum is no ordinary wristwatch .
at first glance , it is an attractive and futuristic bracelet style watch .
look closer , however , and you will notice that its display is unlike any you have seen before .
rather than the usual lcd screen , the display is made of e paper from the electronic paper pioneers e ink corp and shows a constantly changing mosaic pattern along with the time .
because e paper is so flexible and thin , it allows the display to curve round the wrist along with the watch band something conventional liquid crystal displays can not do , as they have to be flat .
seiko says the e paper display not only produces far better contrast than an lcd screen , but requires no power to retain an image , so the batteries last longer .
seiko is releasing only 500 of the watches next month , priced at about 1250 so youd better lose no time .
hdtv already available in the united states , japan , and australia , will hit the uk in 2006 .
when you watch a programme filmed in the hd format , you will see a much sharper , clearer and more vibrant image .
this is due partly to the way a programme is filmed , but also to the high definition tv set itself , which uses either 720 or 1080 visible rows of pixels to display images , compared to the 576 rows of pixels used in current sets .
electrolux trilobite 20 robot vacuum cleaner .
next time you are expecting visitors , do not bother to vacuum first wait until they arrive , and then entertain them with this little gadget .
the electrolux trilobite 20 is a robotic vacuum cleaner that navigates its way around your floors using ultrasound , just like a bat .
it pings out ultrasound vibrations at surfaces to create a map of the room , which it remembers for future cleaning assignments .
the trilobite has no problem avoiding collision with things placed on the floor .
special magnetic strips are placed in doorways , near stairs and other openings .
these act as a wall , keeping the trilobite in the room .
you can also programme it to glide round when you are at work or after you have gone to bed .
when electrolux introduced the original trilobite in 2001 , it was voted among the 100 most innovative designs .
the name comes from the hard shelled sea creature from the paleozoic era that roamed the ocean floor feeding on particles and small animals .
need an extra pair of hands around the office ?
look no further , this month , the honda motor company showcased its second generation humanoid robot , asimo .
the machine has come a long way since its first incarnation five years ago .
the 13 metre tall droid is now capable of performing a variety of office tasks , including reception duties , serving drinks and acting as an information guide , as well as making deliveries .
using multiple sensors , asimo has the ability to recognise the surrounding environment and interact with people using integrated circuit tags .
it can walk and run at a fair pace , and push a cart .
honda plans to start using asimos receptionist functions at its wako building in japan early in 2006 , and it is hoped it will become available for leasing afterwards .
it could soon be pushing a cart at an office near you .
children growing up in costa rica are surrounded by some of the most beautiful and diverse landscapes in the world .
preserving tropical rainforests is not costa ricas only success , because the government also makes sure everyone has access to health care and education .
so when the new economics foundation released its second happy planet index , costa rica came out number one .
the index is a ranking of countries based on their impact on the environment and the health and happiness of their citizens .
according to mariano rojas , a costa rican economics professor , costa rica is a mid income country where citizens have plenty of time for themselves and for their relationships with others .
a mid income level allows most citizens to satisfy their basic needs .
the government makes sure that all costa ricans have access to education , health and nutrition services .
costa ricans , he believes , are not interested in status or spending money to show how successful they are .
their citizens happiness , how long they live , and how much of the planets resources each country consumes .
according to researcher saamah abdallah , the index also measures the outcomes that are most important , and those are happy , healthy lives for everyone .
these lists usually grade the cities in order , from best to worst , and are based on facts and figures provided by local or national organisations .
the city brands index also provides a list of best and worst cities .
however , unlike other surveys , it is based on the idea that cities are similar to products in shops .
it asks ordinary people in other countries to grade cities in the same way that they would grade a product , like a soft drink or a car .
what is particularly different about the cbi is that the people who take part in the survey may not have ever visited the cities .
instead , they are asked to say what they think the cities are like , basing their opinions on things like news stories , magazine articles or television programmes they have heard or seen .
each year , about 10000 people in 20 countries take part in the cbi survey , and they grade a total of 50 cities .
they do this by filling in an online questionnaire .
in a recent internet survey , tourists and business travellers were asked to rate 50 cities around the world , from the best to the worst .
of the top three cities , two were in europe and one was in australia .
in third place was london , scoring highly mainly because it was the most famous city on the list of 50 surveyed .
it was also seen as a very good place to do business , and was an important cultural centre .
however , it lost points because people believed it was an extremely expensive place to live .
sydney was also a very popular destination , achieving second place on the list because people believed it had the friendliest inhabitants , as well as the best standard of living and the nicest climate .
it failed to make the top spot , however , because people thought there were very few things to see there , and many also thought it was too far away from other business and cultural centres .
at the top of the list was paris .
despite problems such as the large amount of traffic , it beat other cities to first place because people considered it to be the most interesting city , with more museums , art galleries and places of interest than anywhere else .
people also thought it was the best city to take a holiday in .
a team of social psychologists from california has spent six years studying the reactions of people in cities around the world to different situations .
the results show that cities where people have less money generally have friendlier populations .
rio de janeiro in brazil , which is often known for its crime , comes out top , and the capital of malawi , lilongwe , comes third .
but what makes one city friendlier than another ?
the psychologists from california state university say it has got more to do with environment than culture or nationality .
they carried out a study into the way locals treated strangers in 23 cities around the world .
the team conducted their research through a series of tests , where they dropped pens or pretended they were blind and needed help crossing the street .
the study concludes that people are more helpful in cities with a more relaxed way of life such as rio .
while they were there , researchers received help in 93 percent of cases , and the percentage in lilong we was only a little lower .
however , richer cities such as amsterdam and new york are considered the least friendly .
inhabitants of amsterdam helped the researchers in 53 percent of cases and in new york just 44 percent .
the psychologists found that , in these cities , people tend to be short of time , so they hurry and often ignore strangers .
corbusier was one of the most influential architects of the 20th century .
but many may wish he had never built anything born charles edouard jeanneret in switzerland in 1887 , the architect le corbusier used his grandfathers name when he went to paris at the age of 29 .
as jeanneret , he had been a fairly successful small town architect .
as le corbusier , he had bigger ideas .
he disliked the architectural styles that were popular at the time , and considered them to be out of date in an industrial age .
he believed that the 20th century deserved a brand new style of architecture .
we must start again from zero , he said .
the new style of architecture was called the international style , and it attracted many followers in the architectural world .
however , nobody was as enthusiastic about it as le corbusier at the beginning .
he worked hard to promote his ideas at exhibitions , at talks , in books and in his own magazine .
he loved machines , and believed that , like a machine , a building should have a function .
a house is a machine for living in .
the machines he admired the most were ships , and his early buildings tried to capture the spirit of the sea with their white walls , exposed rooms , shining glass and flat roofs .
he called this style of architecture purism .
the first building to embrace this style was the villa savoye in france .
le corbusier believed that it was one of the best , most functional houses ever built .
unfortunately , this turned out to be an exaggeration .
the flat roof was a particular problem , as water poured in every time it rained , and it needed constant repairs .
nevertheless , its design was revolutionary , and it should be considered a significant piece of early 20th century architecture .
in 1935 , le corbusier visited new york city .
he loved the city , and especially its tall buildings .
he had only one reservation , which he explained to a journalist for the herald tribune newspaper .
american skyscrapers were the biggest , tallest buildings in the world at that time , but le corbusier was a man who always thought big , and as far as he was concerned , they were just too small .
le corbusier had always admired tall buildings .
now , inspired by his visit , he abandoned purism .
it is doubtful that he could have created anything as grand as the skyscrapers he had seen in the city , but from now on le corbusier started designing buildings that sent out a more powerful message .
he first started using bright colours , and then experimented with concrete .
le corbusier loved the look and flexibility of concrete , and found it hard to hide it behind brick or paint , preferring to leave it on full view .
at a time when concrete was seen as modern and exciting , his designs made him world famous , and he was asked to design several important buildings around the world .
altogether , he designed about 60 major buildings worldwide , in a style that became known as am odernism .
however , while many admired and copied his new style of architecture , many more hated it .
they turned against him , and tried to block his plans .
buildings should inspire people and make them feel good , they said , and le corbusiers ugly , depressing buildings often had the opposite effect .
in this respect , the people of paris had a lucky escape .
early in his career , le corbusier had wanted to knock down the centre of paris and replace the old buildings with huge towers .
fortunately , his plan was rejected .
justifiably , in view of his plans to transform one of the worlds most beautiful cities into a hideous concrete jungle , le corbusier is still known as the man who tried to destroy paris .
despite the criticism , he had an enormous effect on the world of architecture , and attracted a large number of followers .
as a result , many places were subjected to his style .
in the paris suburbs of bobigny , for example , huge towers were built to house some of the citys poorer inhabitants .
other european cities such as london , berlin and dublin also felt his influence .
there was a return to older styles of architecture .
today , many people live in modern houses that look like they are much older .
this look may represent a return to traditional tastes and values .
more likely , however , it represents a reaction against modernist architecture .
in early 1976 , mau piailug , a fisherman , led an expedition in which he sailed a traditional polynesian boat across 2500 miles of ocean from hawaii to tahiti .
the polynesian voyaging society had organised the expedition .
its purpose was to find out if seafarers in the distant past could have found their way from one island to the other without navigational instruments , or whether the islands had been populated by accident .
at the time , mau was the only man alive who knew how to navigate just by observing the stars , the wind and the sea .
he had never before sailed to tahiti , which was a long way to the south .
however , he understood how the wind and the sea behave around islands , so he was confident he could find his way .
the voyage took him and his crew a month to complete and he did it without a compass or charts .
his grandfather began the task of teaching him how to navigate when he was still a baby .
he showed him pools of water on the beach to teach him how the behaviour of the waves and wind changed in different places .
later , mau used a circle of stones to memorise the positions of the stars .
each stone was laid out in the sand to represent a star .
the voyage proved that hawaiis first inhabitants came in small boats and navigated by reading the sea and the stars .
mau himself became a keen teacher , passing on his traditional secrets to people of other cultures so that his knowledge would not be lost .
he explained the positions of the stars to his students , but he allowed them to write things down because he knew they would never be able to remember everything as he had done .
freya stark travelled to many areas of the middle east , often alone .
frey stark was an explorer who lived during a time when explorers were regarded as heroes .
she travelled to distant areas of the middle east , where few europeans especially women had travelled before .
she also travelled extensively in turkey , greece , italy , nepal and afghanistan .
stark was born in paris in 1893 .
although she had no formal education as a child , she moved about with her artist parents and learned french , german and italian .
she entered london university in 1912 , but at the start of world war i , she joined the nurse corps and was sent to italy .
after the war , she returned to london and attended the school of oriental studies .
her studies there led to extensive travel in the middle studies , enabling her to eventually become fluent in persian , russian and turkish .
stark became well known as a traveller and explorer in the middle east .
she travelled to the lebanon in 1927 at the age of 33 when she had saved enough money , and while there , she studied arabic .
in 1928 , she travelled by donkey to the jebel druze , a mountainous area in syria .
during another trip , she went to a distant region of the elburz , a mountain range in iran , where she made a map .
she was searching for information about an ancient muslim sect known as the assassinations , which she wrote about in valley of the assassins , a classic for which was awarded a gold medal by royal geographic society .
for the next 12 years , she continued her career as a traveller and writer , establishing a style which combined an account of her journey with personal commentary on the people , places , customs , history and politics of the middle east .
patrick malone is a traveller , writer and broadcaster .
he was born in 1968 in basel , switzerland , where his british parents were working for a pharmaceutical company .
his family left switzerland when he was twelve , and returned to their home in britain .
for the next six years , malone attended the local secondary school .
he then went to leeds university to do a course in human geography .
he wanted to become a town planner .
however , the only work he could find was as a teacher at a local school .
during his holidays and free time , he went walking , often covering very long distances very quickly .
on one occasion he walked the entire length of britain , a distance of over 1400 kilometres , in less than a month .
he enjoyed the experience and the challenge so much that he started walking in different parts of the world , usually in fairly remote areas away from major population centres .
the people he met and the experiences he had on these trips provided him with some excellent material for his classes .
it was during one trip that he met his old university tutor , don perkins .
at the time , perkins was putting together a team of geographers and biologists for a research trip to the amazon , and asked malone if he would like to go with them .
the expedition was for a whole year , and so he had to give up his job at the school , but malone did not hesitate to accept perkins offer .
he sold his car to make some money , bought an airline ticket for brazil and set off .
the amazon expedition , which took six months and covered a distance of almost 2500 kilometres , was a great success .
the group discovered some new plant and insect species , as well as a forest tribe which people had never heard of .
malone enjoyed the trip so much that he decided to become a full time explorer .
he earned money by writing travel articles for magazines and newspapers , which he illustrated with his own photographs .
in 1996 , he married margaret logan , an american doctor he had met while travelling around africa .
in 1998 they had adam , the first of three children .
many families at this stage would settle down , but margaret and patrick decided to keep travelling , spending two years walking around india and another twelve months exploring the islands of indonesia .
when they returned home , they wrote a magazine article about travelling with small children .
it was so popular that they were asked to write several more articles on the same subject .
this was followed by an offer from a television company to present a tv series about travelling with children .
the series ran for 12 years , and won several television awards .
today they still make the most of every opportunity to travel , and have recently returned from the south pacific .
she has spent her working life studying the worlds oceans , sylvia earle is an underwater explorer and marine biologist who was born in the usa in 1935 .
she became interested in the worlds oceans from an early age .
as a child , she liked to stand on the beach for hours and look at the sea , wondering what it must be like under the surface .
when she was 16 , she finally got a chance to make her first dive .
it was this dive that inspired her to become an underwater explorer .
since then , she has spent more than 6500 hours under water , and has led more than seventy expeditions worldwide .
she has also made the deepest dive ever , reaching a record breaking depth of 381 metres .
in 1970 , she became famous around the world when she became the captain of the first all female team to live under water .
the team spent two weeks in an underwater house .
the research they carried out showed the damage that pollution was causing to marine life , and especially to coral reefs .
her team also studied the problem of over fishing .
fishing methods meant that people were catching too many fish , earle warned , and many species were in danger of becoming extinct .
since then , she has written several books and magazine articles in which she suggests ways of reducing the damage that is being done to the worlds oceans .
one way , she believes , is to rely on fish farms for seafood , and reduce the amount of fishing that is done out at sea .
although she no longer eats seafood herself , she realises the importance it plays in our diets .
it would be wrong to tell people they should stop eating fish from the sea , she says .
however , they need to reduce the impact they are having on the oceans supplies .
the boeing 787 dreamliner has been described as the airliner of the future .
we look at the technology that makes it different .
until now , airliner fuselages have been made of aluminium sheets .
large aircraft can have 1500 of these sheets with between 40000 and 50000 metal fasteners .
the 787 is the first airliner to be built with a one piece fuselage made from a special material called composite .
not only does this make the airliner quicker and easier to build , but it also makes it a lot lighter .
the advantage of this weight reduction is that the 787 uses 20 percent less fuel than other airliners of a similar size , which makes it much more environmentally friendly .
the reduced weight also means that the boeing 787 can fly further than many other airliners of a similar size , carrying 210 passengers or more up to 15200 kilometres before refuelling .
sometimes an airliner needs to change from one type of engine to another .
this is a difficult and time consuming process .
the 787 has a revolutionary engine attachment on the wing which means that the engines can be changed in a much shorter time .
the case containing the engine is also different from those on other airliners .
it has been designed to cut down the noise from the engine , making it less noisy for passengers in the cabin as well as for people on the ground .
in addition to a quieter cabin , passengers will also benefit from windows which are 65 percent larger than those on other airliners , giving them a much better view of the world passing by below them .
the windows also have a unique facility which allows passengers or cabin crew to control the amount of light that enters them .
this is thanks to a liquid in the window which reacts to an electric current .
when a passenger or cabin crew member presses a button , the current causes a chemical reaction in the window which darkens the liquid .
your next car may be electric .
we look at the technologies that will bring the revolution .
the main reasons why electric cars are not more popular at present are their price and their relatively small range .
existing battery systems only allow electric cars to travel a distance of between 100 and 160 km .
however , this distance may not be a problem for urban drivers .
a recent sydney study reported that 70 percent of journeys were 30 km or less , and recent data from the us suggests that 77 percent of trips taken there are 48 km or less .
an innovative company called better place is aiming to make electric car an option for all drivers .
it wants to see existing vehicles replaced by electric vehicles which , it says , offer a number of benefits .
firstly , they can be powered by renewable energy which produces zero emissions .
what is more , electric motors are more efficient and can convert more than 90 percent of power into movement , whereas the efficiency of diesel pr petrol engines is less than 20 percent .
to achieve its aim , better place plans to use technology which is already available .
the plan is simple but revolutionary .
it starts with the installation of a home charge point , and through this , the vehicle will be plugged into the electricity grid whenever it is in the garage , typically at night .
in the morning , with the fully charged battery , the car is capable of as much as 160 km in urban motoring conditions .
in addition to the home charge point , the battery can be topped up by charge point as work and at supermarkets .
the battery is linked to a control centre by smart technology inside the vehicle .
better place can then ensure that the car is charged with electricity from renewable sources at the cheapest price .
for longer trips , a navigation system directs the driver to the nearest switch station , where the depleted battery can be replaced with a charged one by a robot within a couple of minutes .
the concept of traffic free shopping areas goes back a long time .
during the middle ages , traffic free shopping areas known as souks were built in middle eastern countries to allow people to shop in comfort and , more importantly , safety .
as far back as 2000 years ago , road traffic was banned from central rome during the day to allow for the free movement of pedestrians , and was only allowed in at night when shops and markets had closed for the day .
in most other cities , however , pedestrians were forced to share the streets with horses , coaches and , later , with cars and other motorised vehicles .
the modern , traffic free shopping street was born in europe in the 1960s , when both city populations and car ownership increased rapidly .
dirty exhaust fumes from cars and the risks involved in crossing the road were beginning to make shopping an unpleasant and dangerous experience .
many believed the time was right for experimenting with car free streets , and shopping areas seemed the best place to start .
at first , there was resistance from shopkeepers .
they believed that such a move would be bad for business .
they argued that people would avoid streets if they were unable to get to them in their cars .
when the first streets in europe were closed to traffic , there were even noisy demonstrations , as many shopkeepers predicted they would lose customers .
however , research carried out afterwards in several european cities revealed some unexpected statistics .
in munich , cologne and hamburg , visitors to shopping areas increased by 50 percent .
on copenhagens main shopping street , shopkeepers reported sales increases of 25 40 percent .
shopkeepers in minneapolis , usa , were so impressed when they learnt this that they even offered to pay for the construction and maintenance costs of their own traffic free streets .
with the arrival of the traffic free shopping street , many shops , especially those selling things like clothes , food and smaller luxury items , prospered .
unfortunately , it was not good news for everyone , as shops selling furniture and larger electrical appliances actually saw their sales drop .
many of these were forced to move elsewhere , away from the city centre .
today they are a common feature on the outskirts of towns and cities , often situated in out of town retail zones with their own car parks and other local facilities .
there are no easy answers to the problems of traffic congestion .
traffic congestion affects people throughout the world .
traffic jams cause smog in dozens of cities across both the developed and developing world .
in the us , commuters spend an average of a full work week each year sitting in traffic , according to the texas transportation institute .
while alternative ways of getting around are available , most people still choose their cars because they are looking for convenience , comfort and privacy .
the most promising technique for reducing city traffic is called congestion pricing , whereby cities charge a toll to enter certain parts of town at certain times of day .
in theory , if the toll is high enough , some drivers will cancel their trips or go by bus or train .
singapore , london and stockholm have reduced traffic and pollution in city centers thanks to congestion pricing .
another way to reduce rush hour traffic is for employers to implement flexitime , which lets employees travel to and from work at off peak traffic times to avoid the rush hour .
those who have to travel during busy times can do their part by sharing cars .
employers can also allow more staff to telecommute so as to keep more cars off the road altogether .
some urban planners still believe that the best way to ease traffic congestion is to build more roads , especially roads that can take drivers around or over crowded city streets .
but such techniques do not really keep cars off the road , they only accommodate more of them .
other , more forward thinking , planners know that more and more drivers and cars are taking to the roads every day , and they are unwilling to encourage more private automobiles when public transport is so much better both for people and the environment .
for this reason , the american government has decided to spend some 7 billion on helping to increase capacity on public transport systems and upgrade them with more efficient technologies .
but environmentalists complain that such funding is tiny compared with the 50 billion being spent on roads and bridges .
there are no easy answers to the problems of traffic congestion .
traffic congestion affects people throughout the world .
traffic jams cause smog in dozens of cities across both the developed and developing world .
in the us , commuters spend an average of a full work week each year sitting in traffic , according to the texas transportation institute .
while alternative ways of getting around are available , most people still choose their cars because they are looking for convenience , comfort and privacy .
the most promising technique for reducing city traffic is called congestion pricing , whereby cities charge a toll to enter certain parts of town at certain times of day .
in theory , if the toll is high enough , some drivers will cancel their trips or go by bus or train .
singapore , london and stockholm have reduced traffic and pollution in city centers thanks to congestion pricing .
another way to reduce rush hour traffic is for employers to implement flexitime , which lets employees travel to and from work at off peak traffic times to avoid the rush hour .
those who have to travel during busy times can do their part by sharing cars .
employers can also allow more staff to telecommute so as to keep more cars off the road altogether .
some urban planners still believe that the best way to ease traffic congestion is to build more roads , especially roads that can take drivers around or over crowded city streets .
but such techniques do not really keep cars off the road , they only accommodate more of them .
other , more forward thinking , planners know that more and more drivers and cars are taking to the roads every day , and they are unwilling to encourage more private automobiles when public transport is so much better both for people and the environment .
for this reason , the american government has decided to spend some 7 billion on helping to increase capacity on public transport systems and upgrade them with more efficient technologies .
but environmentalists complain that such funding is tiny compared with the 50 billion being spent on roads and bridges .
erno rubik first studied sculpture and then later architecture in budapest , where he went on to become a teacher of interior design .
it was while he was working as a teacher that he began the preliminary work on an invention that he called the am agic cube .
rubik was inspired by geometric puzzles such as the chinese tangram , a puzzle consisting of various triangle , a square and a parallelogram which can be combined to create different shapes and figures .
however , unlike the tangram , which is two dimensional , rubik was more interested in investing how three dimensional forms , such as the cube , could be move and combined to produce other forms .
his design consisted of a cube made up of layers of individual smaller cubes , and each smaller cube could be turned in any direction except diagonally .
to ensure that the cubes could move independently , without falling apart , rubik first attempted to join them together using elastic bands .
however , this proved to be impossible , so rubik then solved the problem by assembling them using a rounded interior .
this permitted them to move smoothly and easily .
he experimented with different ways of making the smaller cubes , but ended up with the simple solution of giving a different colour to each side .
the object was to twist the layers of small cubes so that each side of the large cube was an identical colour .
rubik took out a patent for the cube in 1977 and started manufacturing it in the same year .
the cube came to the attention of a hungarian businessman , who then demonstrated it at the nuremberg toy fair .
when british toy expert tom kremer saw it , he thought it was amazing and he persuaded a manufacturer , ideal toys , to produce 1 million of them in 1979 .
ideal toys renamed the cube after the toys inventor , and in 1980 , rubiks cube was shown at tiny fairs all over the world .
it won that years prize in germany for best puzzle .
rubiks cube is believed to be the worlds best selling puzzle .
since its invention , more than 300 million cubes have been sold worldwide .
the man who turned a luxury item into an everyday object .
marcel bich , a french manufacturer of traditional ink pens , was the man who turned the ballpoint pen into an item that today almost anyone can afford .
bich was appalled at the poor quality of the ballpoint pens that were available , and was also shocked at their high cost .
however , he recognised that the ballpoint was a firmly established invention , and he decided to design a cheap pen that worked well and would be commercially successful .
bich went to the biro brothers and asked them if he could use the design of their original indention in one of his own pens .
in return , he offered to pay them every time he sold a pen .
then , for two years , bich studied the detailed construction of every ballpoint pen that was being sold , often working with a microscope .
a plastic pen with a clear barrel that wrote smoothly , did not leak and only cost a few cents .
he called it the bic cristal .
the ballpoint pen had finally become a practical writing instrument .
the public liked it immediately , and today it is as common as the pencil .
in britain , they are still called biros , and many bic models also say biro on the side of the pen , to remind people of their original inventors .
bich became extremely wealthy thanks to his invention , which had worldwide appeal .
over the next 60 years his company , socit bic , opened factories all over the world and expanded its range of inexpensive products .
today , bic is as famous for its lighters and razors as it is for its pens , and you can even buy a bic mobile phone .
monopoly is one of the biggest selling games in the world .
it is sold in 80 countries and comes in 26 different languages .
but where did this classic board game come from , and why did it become so popular ?
at the beginning of the 20th century , an instructional game called the landlords came was first published by a political activist , elizabeth magie .
the purpose of the game was to teach people how rich , powerful individuals take advantage of the poor while they accumulate even more wealth .
most of us have at least one , but how did this popular item evolve ?
one morning in 1945 , a crowd of 5000 people jammed the entrance of gimbels department store in new york .
the day before , gimbels had placed a full page advertisement in the new york times for a wonderful new invention , the ballpoint pen .
the advertisement described the pen as fantastic and am iraculous .
although they were expensive , 1250 each , all 10000 pens in stock were sold on the first day .
in fact , this new pen was not new at all .
in 1888 , john loud , a leather manufacturer , had invented a pen with a reservoir of ink and a rolling ball .
however , his pen was never produced , and efforts by other people to produce a commercially successful one failed too .
the main problem was with the ink .
if it was too thin , the ink leaked out of the pen .
if it was too thick , it did not come out of the pen at all .
almost fifty years later , in 1935 , a newspaper editor in hungary thought he spent too much time filling his pens with ink .
he decided to invent a better kind of pen .
with the help of his brother , who was a chemist , he produced a ballpoint pen that did not leak when the pen was not being used .
the editor was called ladislas biro , and it was his name that people would associate more than any other with the ballpoint pen .
by chance , biro met augustine justo , the argentinian president .
justo was so impressed with biros invention that he invited him to set up a factory in argentina .
in 1943 , the first biro pens were produced .
it looks harmless and vulnerable but the honey badger is afraid of nothing .
and will attack and eat almost anything .
the honey badger , is an african and south asian mammal that has a reputation for being one of the worlds most fearless animals , despite its small size .
and in spite of its gentle sounding name , it is also one of its most aggressive .
honey badgers have been known to attack lions , buffalo , and snakes three times their size .
even humans are not safe from a honey badger if it thinks the human will attack or harm it .
they are also extremely tough creatures , and can recover quickly from injuries that would kill most other animals .
at first glance , honey badgers look like the common european badger .
they are usually between 75cm and 1 metre long , although males are about twice the size of females .
they are instantly recognisable by grey and white stripes that extend from the top of the head to the tail .
closer inspection , which is probably not a wise thing to do , reveals pointed teeth , and sharp front claws which can be four centimetres in length .
honey badgers are meat eating animals with an extremely varied diet .
they mainly eat a range of small creatures like beetles , lizards and birds , but will also catch larger reptiles like snakes and small crocodiles .
some mammals , such as foxes , antelope and wild cats also form part of their diet .
the badgers locate their prey mainly using their excellent sense of smell , and catch most of their prey through digging .
during a 24 hour period , they may dig as many as fifty holes , and travel more than 40 kilometres .
they are also good climbers , and can easily climb very tall trees to steal eggs from birds nests , or catch other tree dwelling creatures .
as their name suggests , honey badgers have always been associated with honey , although they do not actually eat it .
it is the highly nutritious bee eggs that they prefer , and they will do anything to find it .
they usually cause a lot of damage to the hive in the process , and for this reason , humans are one of their main predators .
bee keepers will often set special traps for honey badgers , to protect their hives .
one of the most fascinating aspects of the honey badger is its working relationship with a bird called the greater honeyguide .
this bird deliberately guides the badger to bee hives , then waits while the badger breaks into the hive and extracts the brood .
the two creatures , bird and mammal , then share the brood between them .
researchers learn more about this fearless african predator .
on a recent field trip to the kalahari desert , a team of researchers learnt a lot more about honey badgers .
they were rewarded with a detailed insight into how these fascinating creatures live and hunt .
the team employed a local wildlife expert , kitso khama , to help them locate and follow the badgers across the desert .
their main aim was to study the badgers movements and behaviour as discreetly as possible , without frightening them away or causing them to change their natural behaviour .
they also planned to trap a few and study them close up before releasing them .
in view of the animals reputation , this was something that even khama was reluctant to do .
the problem with honey badgers is they are naturally curious animals , especially when they see something new , he says .
that , combined with their unpredictable nature , can be a dangerous mixture .
if they sense you have food , for example , they wo not be shy about coming right up to you for something to eat .
they are actually quite sociable creatures around humans , but as soon as they feel they might be in danger , they can become extremely vicious .
fortunately this is rare , but it does happen .
the research confirmed many things that were already known .
as expected , honey badgers ate any creatures they could catch and kill .
even poisonous snakes , feared and avoided by most other animals , were not safe from them .
the researchers were surprised , however , by the animals fondness for local melons , probably because of their high water content .
previously researchers thought that the animal got all of its liquid requirements from its prey .
the team also learnt that , contrary to previous research findings , the badgers occasionally formed loose family groups .
they were also able to confirm certain results from previous research , including the fact that female badgers never socialised with each other .
following some of the male badgers was a challenge , since they can cover large distances in a short space of time .
some hunting territories cover more than 500 square kilometres .
although they seem happy to share these territories with other males , there are occasional fights over an important food source , and male badgers can be as aggressive towards each other as they are towards other species .
as the badgers became accustomed to the presence of people , it gave the team the chance to get up close to them without being the subject of the animals curiosity or their sudden aggression .
the badgers eating patterns , which had been disrupted , returned to normal .
it also allowed the team to observe more closely some of the other creatures that form working associations with the honey badger , as these seemed to adopt the badgers relaxed attitude when near humans .
sleep may reduce mistakes in memory , according to a first of its kind study led by a cognitive neuroscientist at michigan state university .
principal investigator and msu assistant professor of psychology , the findings , which appear in the september issue of the journal learning memory , have practical implications for everyone from students flubbing multiple choice tests to senior citizens confusing their medications .
its easy to muddle things in your mind , fenn said .
this research suggests that after sleep you are better able to tease apart the incorrect aspect of that memory .
fenn and colleagues from the university of chicago and washington university in st louis studied the presence of false memory in groups of college students .
we all think we can break our bad habits but they can stay with us for life .
what is a bad habit ?
the most common definition is that it is something that we do regularly , almost without thinking about it , and which has some sort of negative consequence .
this consequence could affect those around us , or it could affect us personally .
those who deny having bad habits are probably lying .
bad habits are part of what makes us human .
computers are not just for entertainment , shopping or research purposes as one woman found out when she tried to cure her fears .
most people have at least one thing they are afraid of .
a fear of things like snakes , spiders , dogs , heights or open spaces affects over 90 percent of the population .
in extreme cases , a fear can develop into a phobia , where the fear of something is so powerful it can affect the way the sufferer lives their life .
about 10 percent of people suffer from a phobia .
speed reading is not just about reading fast .
it is also about how much information you can remember when you have finished reading .
the world championship speed reading competition says that its top competitors average between 1000 and 2000 words a minute .
but they must remember at least 50 percent of this in order to qualify for the competition .
nowadays , speed reading has become an essential skill in any environment where people have to master a large volume of information .
professional workers need reading skills to help them get through many documents every day , while students under pressure to deal with assignments may feel they have to read more and read faster all the time .
although there are various methods to increase reading speed , the trick is deciding what information you want first .
for example , if you only want a rough outline of an issue , then you can skim the material quickly and extract the key facts .
however , if you need to understand every detail in a document , then you must read it slowly enough to understand this .
even when you know how to ignore irrelevant detail , there are other improvements you can make to your reading style which will increase your speed .
for example , most people can read much faster if they read silently .
reading each word aloud takes time for the information to make a complete circuit in your brain before being pronounced .
some researchers believe that as long as the first and last letters are in place , the brain can still understand the arrangement of the other letters in the word because it logically puts each piece into place .
chunking is another important method .
most people learn to read either letter by letter or word by word .
as you improve , this changes .
you will probably find that you are fixing your eyes on a block of words , then moving your eyes to the next block of words , and so on .
you are reading blocks of words at a time , not individual words one by one .
sometimes you may move back to a previous block if you are unsure about something .
a skilled reader will read a lot of words in each block .
he or she will only look at each block for an instant and will then move on .
only rarely will the readers eyes skip back to a previous block of words .
this reduces the amount of work that the readers eyes have to do .
it also increases the volume of information that can be taken in over a given period of time .
on the other hand , a slow reader will spend a lot of time reading small blocks of words .
he or she will skip back often , losing the flow and structure of the text , and muddling their overall understanding of the subject .
this irregular eye movement quickly makes the reader tired .
poor readers tend to dislike reading because they feel it is difficult to concentrate and comprehend written information .
the best tip anyone can have to improve their reading speed is to practise .
in order to do this effectively , a person must be engaged in the material and want to know more .
if you find yourself constantly having to re read the same paragraph , you may want to switch to reading material that grabs your attention .
if you enjoy what you are reading , you will make quicker progress .
people who think graphic novels are just comics with a different name should think again .
graphic novels , as the name suggests , are books written and illustrated in the style of a comic book .
the term graphic novel was first used in 1978 by author and artist will eisner to distinguish a comic novel he had written and illustrated from newspaper comic strips .
he described graphic novels as consisting of sequential art a series of illustrations which , when viewed in order , tell a story .
although todays graphic novels are a recent phenomenon , this basic way of telling stories has been used in various forms for centuries .
early cave drawings , hieroglyphics and medieval tapestries are examples of this .
the term graphic novel is now generally used to describe any book in a comic format that resembles a novel in length and narrative development .
many adults feel that graphic novels are not the type of reading material that will help young people become good readers .
they believe that graphic novels are somehow a bad influence that prevent are al reading .
in other words , they think that they are not are al books .
however , many quality graphic novels are now being seen as a method of storytelling on the same level as novels , films or audio books .
from originally appealing to a small following of enthusiasts , they are now being accepted by librarians and teachers as proper literature for children and young adults .
the main advantages are that they promote literacy , and attract and motivate young people to read .
how do we know this ?
in the last few years , teachers and school libraries have reported outstanding success getting children to read with graphic novels .
many have mentioned the motivational factor of the graphic novel .
this has been especially true with children who are usually reluctant to read , especially boys .
the colourful pictures attract them , and then encourage them to find out what the story is about .
providing young people of all abilities with a wide range of reading materials , including graphic novels , can help them become lifelong readers .
furthermore , one of the main benefits of a graphic novel is that it can help students who are learning a foreign language , and who are having problems improving their reading skills .
this is because the pictures provide clues to the meaning of the words .
language learners are therefore more motivated by graphic novels , and will acquire new vocabulary more quickly .
many teachers have reported great success when they have used graphic novels with their students , especially in the areas of english , social studies and art .
they have discovered that , just like traditional forms of literature , they can be useful tools for helping students examine aspects of history , science , literature and art .
the idea that graphic novels are too simple to be regarded as serious reading is no longer valid .
the excellent graphic novels available today demand many of the same skills that are needed to understand traditional works of fiction .
often they actually contain more sophisticated vocabulary than traditional books .
reading them can help students develop the skills that are necessary to read more challenging works .
tribal tourism is becoming more popular .
but at what cost to the locals ?
tribal tourism is a relatively new type of tourism .
it involves travellers going to remote destinations , staying with local people and learning about their culture and way of life .
they stay in local accommodation , share facilities with local people , and join in with meals and celebrations .
at the moment , less than one percent of holidays are tribal tourism holidays , but this is set to change .
tribal tourism is often compared with foreign exchange visits .
however , a foreign exchange involves staying with people who often share the same values .
tribal tourism takes visitors to places where the lifestyle is very different from that in their home location .
those who have been on a tribal holiday explain that experiencing this lifestyle is the main attraction .
they say that it offers them the chance to live in a way they never have before .
not everyone is convinced that tribal tourism is a good thing , and opinions are divided .
the argument is about whether or not it hell the local population , or whether it exploits them .
the main problem is that , because tribal tourism is relatively new , the long term effects on local populations have not been studied in much detail .
where studies have been carried out , the effects have been found to be negative .
travel writer recalls a recent trip to guatemala , where he saw an example of this .
he explains there is a village with a statue of a man called maximon , who has a special spiritual meaning for the local tribe .
the statue is kept indoors , and once a year the locals bring him out and carry him around the village .
however , visitors now pay money for them to bring the statue out and carry it around , while they take photographs .
as a result , maximon has lost his original meaning , and is now just another tourist attraction .
so , is it possible to experience an exotic culture without harming it in some way ?
with a bit of thought , we can maximise the positive impacts and minimise the negative , says travel company director hilary waterhouse .
remember that you are there not only to experience a different culture , but to help it in some way .
tourists bring money to the community , which the community can invest in local projects .
however , this does not mean you can act the way you might do back home .
the most important thing is to show respect , learn about , and be aware of , local customs and traditions .
always remember you are a guest .
science and technology work with nature to bring rain when and where it is needed .
wheat farmer gang liu is a worried man .
the annual rains have not arrived , and there is a danger that unless there is substantial rainfall soon , his annual wheat crop will fail .
as he looks anxiously at the clouds which promise rain but are failing to deliver it , there is a sudden loud roar , and from fields for miles around , hundreds of small rockets are fired into the clouds .
within twenty minutes , the farms around the eastern chinese city of luohe are experiencing their first rain for many weeks .
gang lius valuable wheat has been saved , thanks to a technique known as cloud seeding , in which the chemical silver iodide is introduced into clouds .
this causes the tiny drops of moisture in the clouds to turn to ice .
these tiny ice particles join until they become heavy enough to fall from the sky , turning into rain as they melt .
but did cloud seeding really cause the rain in luohe to fall , or was it just a coincidence ?
experts often question whether cloud seeding actually works .
it is hard to tell how effective cloud seeding actually is , they say , as it might have rained anyway , without human intervention .
but this has not stopped many governments and organisations from trying .
there are currently 150 weather modifying projects taking place in more than 40 countries .
not all of them are aimed at creating rain .
the eastlund scientific enterprises corporation in the usa , for example , is experimenting with firing microwaves into clouds to prevent the tornadoes which cause enormous damage to the country every year .
in russia , experiments have been carried out to make sure the sun shines during important national events .
however , it is rainmaking that dominates the research programmes .
in many of these , researchers are using trials in which some clouds are seeded while others are not , and both groups are monitored .
arlen huggins of the desert research institute is leading a research project in australia .
weather monitoring technology is so good nowadays , he says , that we can measure clouds much more effectively , even from the inside .
as a result , we now know much more about the effect humans can have on the weather .
what huggins team has discovered so far is promising .
they believe that cloud seeding does work , although there are still two years of the six year project left to go .
in china , where the majority of cloud seeding operations take place , weather modification authorities use army rockets to fire silver iodide particles into the clouds .
39000 staff working for the china meteorological administration are equipped with 7113 army cannons which , in 2006 , were used to fire a million silver iodide rockets into the atmosphere .
this costs over 100 million a year , although the cma claims the results are worth the expense .
between 1999 and 2006 , they say , cloud seeding produced 250 billion metric tonnes of rain and prevented thousands of farmers from losing their crops .
we want to understand what makes clouds rain , says philip brown of the uk meteorological office , explaining why so much time , effort and money are being invested .
but there is a more powerful economic reason .
a lot of countries around the world are at risk from drought , and governments will try anything to make sure that does not happen , even if the scientific evidence is weak .
the potential economic value is greater than the scientific value .
making it rain might allow you to keep agriculture going where , without human intervention , it might fail .
when news breaks of the discovery of a new species of dinosaur , you would be forgiven for thinking that the scientists who set out in search of the fossils are the ones who made die find .
the reality tells a different story , as cavan scott explains .
the bbc series planet dinosaur used state of the art computer graphics to bring to life the most impressive of those dinosaurs whose remains have been discovered in the past decade .
one of these is gigantoraptor erlianensis .
discovered in 2005 , it stands more than three metres high at the hip and is the biggest bird like dinosaur ever unearthed .
the titanosaur was brought to the attention of the scientific community in 1993 by rodolfo coria and jose bonaparte of the national museum of natural sciences in buenos aires .
coria points out that most breakthroughs are not made byscientists , but by ordinary folk .
but the real scientific discovery is not the finding .
its what we learn from that finding .
while any one of us can unearth a fossil , it takes dedicated scientists to see beyond the rock .
what caricatures can teach us about facial recognition ?
our brains are incredibly agile machines , and it is hard to think of anything they do more efficiently than recognize faces .
just hours after birth , the eyes of newborns are drawn to facelike patterns .
an adult brain knows it is seeing a face within 100 milliseconds , and it takes just over a second to realize that two different pictures of a face , even if they are lit or rotated in very different ways , belong to the same person .
perhaps the most vivid illustration of our gift for recognition is the magic of caricature the fact that the sparest cartoon of a familiar face , even a single line dashed off in two seconds , can be identified by our brains in an instant .
it is often said that a good caricature looks more like a person than the person themselves .
as it happens , this notion , counterintuitive though it may sound , is actually supported by research .
in the field of vision science , there is even a term for this seeming paradox the caricature effect a phrase that hints at how our brains misperceive faces as much as perceive them .
two eyes above a nose thats above a mouth , the features varying from person to person generally by mere millimetres .
so what our brains look for , according to vision scientists , are the outlying features those characteristics that deviate most from the ideal face we carry around in our heads , the running average of every visage we have ever seen .
we code each new face we encounter not in absolute terms but in the several ways it differs markedly from the mean .
in other words , we accentuate what is most important for recognition and largely ignore what is not .
our perception fixates on the upturned nose , the sunken eyes orthe fleshy cheeks , making them loom larger .
to better identify and remember people , we turn them into caricatures .
ten years ago , we all imagined that as soon as surveillance cameras had been equipped with the appropriate software , the face of a crime suspect would stand out in a crowd .
like a thumbprint , its unique features and configuration would offer a biometric key that could be immediately checked against any database of suspects .
but now a decade has passed , and face recognition systems still perform miserably in real world conditions .
just recently , a couple who accidentally swapped passports at an airport in england sailed through electronic gates that were supposed to match their faces to file photos .
all this leads to an interesting question .
what if , to secure our airports and national landmarks , we need to learn more about caricature ?
after all , its the skill of the caricaturist the uncanny ability to quickly distill faces down to their most salient features that our computers most desperately need to acquire .
clearly , better cameras and faster computers simply are not going to be enough .
at the university of central lancashire in england , charlie frowd , a senior lecturer in psychology , has used insights from caricature to develop a better police composite generator .
his system , called evofit , produces animated caricatures , with each successive frame showing facial features that are more exaggerated than the last .
frowds research supports the idea that we all store memories as caricatures , but with our own personal degree of amplification .
so , as an animated composite depicts faces at varying stages of caricature , viewers respond to the stage that is most recognizable to them .
in tests , frowds technique has increased positive identifications from as low as 3 percent to upwards of 30 percent .
to achieve similar results in computer face recognition , scientists would need to model the artists genius even more closely a feat that might seem impossible if you listen to some of the artists describe their nearly mystical acquisition of skills .
jason seiler recounts how he trained his mind for years , beginning in middle school , until he gained what he regards as nothing less than a second sight .
a lot of people think that caricature is about picking out someones worst feature and exaggerating it as far as you can , seiler says .
caricature is basically finding the truth .
and then you push the truth .
capturing a likeness , it seems , has less to do with the depiction of individual features than with their placement in relationship to one another .
its how the human brain recognizes a face .
when the ratios between the features are correct , you see that face instantly .
pawan sinha , director of mits sinha laboratory for vision research , and one of the nations most innovative computer vision researchers , contends that these simple , exaggerated drawings can be objectively and systematically studied and that such work will lead to breakthroughs in our understanding of both human and machine based vision .
his lab at mit is preparing to computationally analyze hundreds of caricatures this year , from dozens of different artists , with the hope of tapping their intuitive knowledge of what is and is not crucial for recognition .
he has named this endeavor the hirschfeld project , after the famous new york times caricaturist al hirschfeld .
quite simply , by analyzing sketches , sinha lopes to pinpoint the recurring exaggerations in the caricatures that most strongly correlate to particular ways that the original faces deviate from the norm .
its a recipe for how to encode the face , he says .
in preliminary tests , the lab has already isolated important areas for example , the ratio of the height of the forehead to the distance between the top of the nose and the mouth .
on a given face , four of 20 such hirschfeld attributes , as sinha plans to call them , will be several standard deviations greater than the mean .
on another face , a different handful of attributes might exceed the norm .
but in all cases , its the exaggerated areas of the face that hold the key .
as matters stand today , an automated system must compare its target faces against the millions of continually altering faces it encounters .
but so far , the software does not know what to look for amid this onslaught of variables .
armed with the hirschfeld attributes , sinha hopes that computers can be trained to focus on the features most salient for recognition , tuning out the others .
then sinha says , the sky is the limit .
it may one day be possible to eavesdrop on another persons inner voice .
as you begin to read this article and your eyes follow the words across the page , you may be aware of a voice in your head silently muttering along .
a private , internal narrative shapes the words before we commit them to text .
what if it were possible to tap into this inner voice ?
thinking of words does , after all , create characteristic electrical signals in our brains , and decoding them could make it possible to piece together someones thoughts .
such an ability would have phenomenal prospects , not least for people unable to communicate as a result of brain damage .
the massachusetts institute of technology has led the world into the future for 150 years with scientific innovations .
the musician yo yo mas cello may not be the obvious starting point for a journey into one of the worlds great universities .
but , as you quickly realise when you step inside the massachusetts institute of technology , theres precious little going on that you would normally see on a university campus .
the cello , resting in a corner of mits celebrated media laboratory a hub of creativity looks like any other electric classical instrument .
but it is much more .
machover , the composer , teacher and inventor responsible for its creation , calls it a hyperinstrument , a sort of thinking machine that allows ma and his cello to interact with one another and make music together .
the aim is to build an instrument worthy of a great musician like yo yo ma that can understand what he is trying to do and respond to it , machover says .
the cello has numerous sensors across its body and by measuring the pressure , speed and angle of the virtuosos performance it can interpret his mood and engage with it , producing extraordinary new sounds .
the virtuoso cellist frequently performs on the instrument as he tours around the world .
machovers passion for pushing at the boundaries of the existing world to extend and unleash human potential is not a bad description of mit as a whole .
to leap into the dark and reach for the unknown .
the result of that single unifying ambition is visible all around .
for the past 150 years , mit has been leading the world into the future .
the discoveries of its teachers and students have become the common everyday objects that we now all take for granted .
the telephone , electromagnets , radars , high speed photography , office photocopiers , cancer treatments , pocket calculators , computers , the internet , the decoding of the human genome , lasers , space travel .
the list of innovations that involved essential contributions from mit and its faculty goes on and on .
from the moment mit was founded by william barton rogers in 1861 , it was clear what it was not .
while harvard stuck to the english model of a classical education , with its emphasis on latin and greek , mit looked to the german system of learning based on research and hands on experimentation .
knowledge was at a premium , but it had to be useful .
this down to earth quality is enshrined in the school motto , mens et manus mind and hand as well as its logo , which shows a gowned scholar standing beside an ironmonger bearing a hammer and anvil .
that symbiosis of intellect and craftsmanship still suffuses the institutes classrooms , where students are not so much taught as engaged and inspired .
take christopher merrill , 21 , a third year undergraduate in computer science .
he is spending most of his time on a competition set in his robotics class .
the contest is to see which student can most effectively program a robot to build a house out of blocks in under ten minutes .
merrill says he could have gone for the easiest route designing a simple robot that would build the house quickly .
but he wanted to try to master an area of robotics that remains unconquered adaptability , the ability of the robot to rethink its plans as the environment around it changes , as would a human .
i like to take on things that have never been done before rather than to work in an iterative way just making small steps forward , he explains .
merrill is already planning the start up he wants to set up when he graduates in a years time .
he has an idea for an original version of a contact lens that would augment reality by allowing consumers to see additional visual information .
he is fearful that he might be just too late in taking his concept to market , as he has heard that a silicon valley firm is already developing something similar .
as such , he might become one of many mit graduates who go on to form companies that fail .
alternatively , he might become one of those who go on to succeed inspectacular fashion .
and there are many of them .
a survey of living mit alumni found that they have formed 25800 companies , employing more than three million people , including about a quarter of the workforce of silicon valley .
what mit delights in is taking brilliant minds from around the world in vastly diverse disciplines and putting them together .
you can see that in its sparkling new david koch institute for integrative cancer research , which brings scientists , engineers and clinicians under one roof .
or in its energy initiative , which acts as a bridge for mits combined work across all its five schools , channelling huge resources into the search for a solution to global warming .
it works to improve the efficiency of existing energy sources , including nuclear power .
it is also forging ahead with alternative energies from solar to wind and geothermal , and has recently developed the use of viruses to synthesise batteries that could prove crucial in the advancement of electric cars .
in the words of tim berners lee , the briton who invented the world wide web , its not just another university .
even though i spend my time with my head buried in the details of web technology , the nice thing is that when i do walk the corridors , i bump into people who are working in other fields with their students that are fascinating , and that keeps me intellectually alive .
young children struggle with color concepts , and the reason for this may have something to do with how we use the words that describe them .
in the course of the first few years of their lives , children who are brought up in english speaking homes successfully master the use of hundreds of words .
words for objects , actions , emotions , and many other aspects of the physical world quickly become part of their infant repertoire .
for some reason , however , when it comes to learning color words , the same children perform very badly .
at the age of four months , babies can distinguish between basic color categories .
yet it turns out they do this in much the same way as blind children .
blue and yellow appear in older childrens expressive language in answer to questions such as what color is this ?
, but their mapping of objects to individual colors is haphazard and interchangeable .
if shown a blue cup and asked about its color , typical two year olds seem as likely to come up with red as blue .
even after hundreds of training trials , children as old as four may still end up being unable to accurately sort objects by color .
in an effort to work out why this is , cognitive scientists at stanford university in california hypothesized that childrens incompetence at color word learning may be directly linked to the way these words are used in english .
while word order for color adjectives varies , they are used overwhelmingly in pre nominal position .
in other words , the adjective comes before the noun it is describing .
this is in contrast to post nominal position where the adjective comes after the noun .
it seems that the difficulty children have may not be caused by any unique property of color , or indeed , of the world .
rather , it may simply come down to the challenge of having to make predictions from color words to the objects they refer to , instead of being able to make predictions from the world of objects to the color words .
to illustrate , the word chair has a meaning that applies to the somewhat varied set of entities in the world that people use for sitting on .
chairs have features , such as arms and legs and backs , that are combined to some degree in a systematic way .
they turn up in a range of chairs of different shapes , sizes , and ages .
it could be said that children learn to narrow down the set of cues that make up a chair and in this way they learn the concept associated with that word .
on the other hand , color words tend to be unique and not bound to other specific co occurring features .
there is nothing systematic about color words to help cue their meaning .
in the speech that adults direct at children , color adjectives occur pre nominally around 70 percent of the time .
this suggests that most of what children hear from adults will , in fact , be unhelpful in learning what color words refer to .
to explore this idea further , the research team recruited 41 english children aged between 23 and 29 months and carried out a three phase experiment .
it consisted of a pre test , followed by training in the use of color words , and finally a post test that was identical to the pre test .
the pre and post test materials comprised six objects that were novel to the children .
there were three examples of each object in each of three colors red , yellow , and blue .
the objects were presented on trays , and in both tests , the children were asked to pick out objects in response to requests in which the color word was either a prenominal .
in the training , the children were introduced to a magic bucket containing five sets of items familiar to 26 month olds in each of the three colors .
the training was set up so that half the children were presented with the items one by one and heard them labelled with color words used pre nominally .
after the training , the children repeated the selection task on the unknown items in the post test .
to assess the quality of childrens understanding of the color words , and the effect of each type of training , correct choices on items that were consistent across the pre and post tests were used to measure childrens color knowledge .
they averaged two out of three correct choices in response to both pre and post nominal question types , which , it has been pointed out , is better than chance .
when childrens responses to the question types were assessed independently , performance was at its most consistent when children were both trained and tested on post nominal adjectives , and worst when trained on pre nominal adjectives and tested on post nominal adjectives .
only children who had been trained with post nominal color word presentation and then tested with post nominal question types were significantly more accurate than chance .
comparing the pre and post test scores across each condition revealed asignificant decline in performance when children were both pre and post tested with questions that placed the color words pre nominally .
as predicted , when children are exposed to color adjectives in post nominal position , they learn them rapidly .
when they are presented with them pre nominally , as english overwhelmingly tends to do , children show no signs of learning .
the fact that taking a fake drug can powerfully improve some peoples health the so called placebo effect was long considered an embarrassment to the serious practice of pharmacology , but now things have changed .
several years ago , merck , a global pharmaceutical company , was falling behind its rivals in sales .
to make matters worse , patents on five blockbuster drugs were about to expire , which would allow cheaper generic products to flood the market .
in interviews with the press , edward scolnick , mercks research director , presented his plan to restore the firm to pre eminence .
key to his strategy was expanding the companys reach into the anti depressant market , where merck had trailed behind , while competitors like pfizer and glaxosmithkline had created some of the best selling drugs in the world .
the appearance of the poster has changed continuously over the past two centuries .
the first posters were known as broadsides and were used for public and commercial announcements .
printed on one side only using metal type , they were quickly and crudely produced in large quantities .
as they were meant to be read at a distance , they required large lettering .
there were a number of negative aspects of large metal type .
some 50000 years ago , homo sapiens beat other hominids to become the only surviving species .
kate ravilious reveals how we did it .
a today , there are over seven billion people living on earth .
no other species has exerted as much influence over the planet as us .
but turn the clock back 80000 years and we were one of a number of species roaming the earth .
in november 2011 , one teacher named kami thordarson , began using khan academy in her class .
it is an educational website on which students can watch some 2400 videos .
the videos are anything but sophisticated .
at seven to 14 minutes long , they consist of a voice over by the sites founder , salman khan , chattily describing a mathematical concept or explaining how to solve a problem , while his hand scribbled formulas and diagrams appear on screen .
as a student , you can review a video as many times as you want , scrolling back several times over puzzling parts and fast forwarding through the boring bits you already know .
once you have mastered a video , you can move on to the next one .
initially , thordarson thought khan academy would merely be a helpful supplement to her normal instruction .
but it quickly became far more than that .
she is now on her way to flipping the way her class wo ks .
this involves replacing some of her lectures with khans videos , which students can watch at home .
then in class , they focus on working on the problem areas together .
the idea is to invert the normal rhythms of school , so that lectures are viewed in the childrens own time and homework is done at school .
it sounds weird , thordarson admits , but this reversal makes sense when you think about it .
and are most likely to want someone to talk to .
and khan academy provides teachers with a dashboard application that lets them see the instant a student gets stuck .
for years , teachers like thordarson have complained about the frustrations of teaching to the middle of the class .
they stand at the whiteboard trying to get 25 or more students to learn at the same pace .
advanced students get bored and tune out , lagging ones get lost and tune out , and pretty soon half the class is not paying attention .
since the rise of personal computers in the 1980s , educators have hoped that technology could save the day by offering lessons tailored to each child .
schools have spent millions of dollars on sophisticated classroom technology , but the effort has been in vain .
the one to one instruction it requires is , after all , prohibitively expensive .
what country can afford such a luxury ?
khan never intended to overhaul the school curricula and he does not have a consistent , comprehensive plan for doing so .
nevertheless , some of his fans believe that he has stumbled onto the solution to educations middle of the class mediocrity .
most notable among them is bill gates , whose foundation has invested 15 million in khans site .
students have pointed out that khan is particularly good at explaining all the hidden , small steps in math problems steps that teachers often gloss over .
he has an uncanny ability to inhabit the mind of someone who does not already understand something .
however , not all educators are enamoured with khan and his site .
gary stager , a long time educational consultant and advocate of laptops in classrooms , thinks khan academy is not innovative at all .
the videos and software modules , he contends , are just a high tech version of the outdated teaching techniques lecturing and drilling .
schools have become joyless test prep factories , he says , and khan academy caters to this dismal trend .
as sylvia martinez , president of an organization focusing on technology in the classroom , puts it , the things they are doing are really just rote .
i am sorry , but if they can not understand the lecture in a classroom , they are not going to grasp it better when its done through a video at home .
another limitation of khans site is that the drilling software can only handle questions where the answers are unambiguously right or wrong , like math or chemistry .
khan has relatively few videos on messier , grey area subjects like history .
khan and gates admit there is no easy way to automate the teaching of writing even though it is just as critical as math .
even if khan is truly liberating students to advance at their own pace , it is not clear that schools will be able to cope .
the very concept of grade levels implies groups of students moving along together at an even pace .
so what happens when , using khan academy , you wind up with a ten year old who has already mastered high school physics ?
khans programmer , ben kamens , has heard from teachers who have seen khan academy presentations and loved the idea but wondered whether they could modify it to stop students from becoming this advanced .
khans success has injected him into the heated wars over school reform .
reformers today , by and large , believe student success should be carefully tested , with teachers and principals receiving better pay if their students advance more quickly .
in essence , khan does not want to change the way institutions teach .
he wants to change how people learn , whether they are in a private school or a public school or for that matter , whether they are a student or an adult trying to self educate in ohio , brazil , russia , or india .
one member of khans staff is spearheading a drive to translate the videos into ten major languages .
do something novel , do it with speed , and the people who love it will find you .
they are the earths pollinators and they come in more than 200000 shapes and sizes .
row upon row , tomato plants stand in formation inside a greenhouse .
to reproduce , most flowering plants depend on a third party to transfer pollen between their male and female parts .
some require extra encouragement to give up that golden dust .
the tomato flower , for example , needs a violent shake , a vibration roughly equivalent to 30 times the pull of earths gravity , explains arizona entomologist stephen buchmann .
growers have tried numerous ways to rattle pollen from tomato blossoms .
they have used shaking tables , air blowers and blasts of sound .
but natural means seem to work better .
it is no surprise that natures design works best .
more than 200000 individual animal species , by varying strategies , help the worlds 240000 species of flowering plants make more flowers .
flies and beetles are the original pollinators , going back to when flowering plants first appeared 130 million years ago .
as for bees , scientists have identified some 20000 distinct species so far .
hummingbirds , butterflies , moths , wasps and ants are also up to the job .
sugar loving opossums , some rainforest monkeys , and lemurs in madagascar , all with nimble hands that tear open flower stalks and furry coats to which pollen sticks .
most surprising , some lizards , such as geckos , lap up nectar and pollen and then transport the stuff on their faces and feet as they forage onward .
all that messy diversity , unfortunately , is not well suited to the monocrops and mega yields of modern commercial farmers .
before farms got so big , says conservation biologist claire kremen of the university of california , berkeley , we did not have to manage pollinators .
they were all around because of the diverse landscapes .
now you need to bring in an army to get pollination done .
the european honeybee was first imported to the us some 400 years ago .
now at least a hundred commercial crops rely almost entirely on managed honeybees , which beekeepers raise and rent out to tend to big farms .
although other species of bees are five to ten times more efficient , on a per bee basis , at pollinating certain fruits , honeybees have bigger colonies , cover longer distances , and tolerate management and movement better than most insects .
they are not picky they will spend their time on almost any crop .
its tricky to calculate what their work is truly worth .
some economists put it at more than 200 billion globally a year .
however , industrial scale farming may be wearing down the system .
however , habitat loss and alteration , he says , are even more of a menace to pollinators than pathogens .
claire kremen encourages farmers to cultivate the flora surrounding farmland to help solve habitat problems .
along roads , even in tractor yards .
planting hedgerows and patches of native flowers that bloom at different times and seeding fields with multiple plant species rather than monocrops not only is better for native pollinators , but its just better agriculture , she says .
pesticide free wildflower havens , adds buchmann , would also bolster populations of useful insects .
fortunately , too , there are far more generalist plants than specialist plants , so theres a lot of redundancy in pollination , buchmann says .
even if one pollinator drops out , there are often pretty good surrogates left to do the job .
the key to keeping our gardens growing strong , he says , is letting that diversity thrive .
take away that variety , and we will lose more than honey .
we would not starve .
but what we eat , and even what we wear pollinators , after all , give us some of our cotton and flax would be limited to crops whose pollen travels by other means .
in a sense , she says , our lives would be dictated by the wind .
its vital that we give pollinators more of what they need and less of what they do not , and ease the burden on managed bees byletting native animals do their part , say scientists .
the community that focuses its efforts on the exploration of space has largely been different from the community focused on the study and protection of the earths environment , despite the fact that both fields of interest involve what might be referred to as scientific exploration .
the reason for this dichotomous existence is chiefly historical .
the exploration of the earth has been occurring over many centuries , and the institutions created to do it are often very different from those founded in the second part of the 20th century to explore space .
this separation is also caused by the fact that space exploration has attracted experts from mainly non biological disciplines primarily engineers and physicists but the study of earth and its environment is a domain heavily populated by biologists .
the separation between the two communities is often reflected in attitudes .
in the environmental community , it is not uncommon for space exploration to be regarded as a waste of money , distracting governments from solving major environmental problems here at home .
in the space exploration community , it is not uncommon for environmentalists to be regarded as introspective people who divert attention from the more expansive visions of the exploration of space the new frontier .
these perceptions can also be negative in consequence because the full potential of both communities can be realised better when they work together to solve problems .
for example , those involved in space exploration can provide the satellites to monitor the earths fragile environments , and environmentalists can provide information on the survival of life in extreme environments .
in the sense that earth and space exploration both stem from the same human drive to understand our environment and our place within it , there is no reason for the split to exist .
a more accurate view of earth and space exploration is to see them as a continuum of exploration with many interconnected and mutually beneficial links .
the earth and space foundation , a registered charity , was established for the purposes of fostering such links through field research and bydirect practical action .
satellite communications , gps , remote sensing , advanced materials and power sources .
for example , in places where people are faced with destruction of the forests on which their livelihood depends , rather than rejecting economic progress and trying to save the forests on their intrinsic merit , another approach is to enhance the value of the forests although these schemes must be carefully assessed to be successful .
the foundation helped fund a large archaeology project by the society for syrian archaeology at the university of california , los angeles , in collaboration with the syrian government that used gps and satellite imagery to locate mounds , or tels , containing artefacts and remnants of early civilisations .
these collections are being used to build a better picture of the nature of the civilisations that gave birth to astronomy .
field research also applies the earths environmental and biological resources to the human exploration and settlement of space .
this may include the use of remote environments on earth , as well as physiological and psychological studies in harsh environments .
in one research project , the foundation provided a grant to an international caving expedition to study the psychology of explorers subjected to long term isolation in caves in mexico .
the psychometric tests on the cavers were used to enhance us astronaut selection criteria by the nasa johnson space center .
space like environments on earth help us understand how to operate in the space environment or help us characterise extraterrestrial environments for future scientific research .
in the arctic , a 24 kilometre wide impact crater formed by an asteroid orcomet 23 million years ago has become home tc a mars analogue programme .
the foundation helped fund the nasa haughton mars project to use this crater to test communications and exploration technologies in preparation for the human exploration of mars .
the crater , which sits in high arctic permafrost , provides an excellent replica of the physical processes occurring on mars , a permafrosted , impact altered planet .
geologists and biologists can work at the site to help understand how impact craters shape the geological characteristics and possibly biological potential of mars .
in addition to its fieldwork and scientific activities .
the foundation has award programmes .
these include a series of awards for the future human exploration of mars , a location with a diverse set of exploration challenges .
the awards will honour a number of firsts on mars that include landing on the surface , undertaking an overland expedition to the martian south pole , undertaking an overland expedition to the martian north pole , climbing olympus mons , the highest mountain in the solar system , and descending to the bottom of valles marineris , the deepest canyon on mars .
the foundation will offer awards for expeditions further out in the solar system once these mars awards have been claimed .
together , they demonstrate that the programme really has no boundary in what it could eventually support , and they provide longevity for the objectives of the foundation .
machines that look after your home are getting cleverer , but they still need care and attention if they are to perform as intended .
floor cleaning machines capable of responding to their environment were among the first commercially available domestic products worthy of being called robots .
the best known is the roomba , made by irobot , an american company which has sold more than three million of the disc shaped , frisbee sized vacuuming robots .
the latest model , the fifth version of the roomba , has more sensors and cleverer software than its predecessors .
press the clean button and the robot glides out of its docking station and sets off across the floor .
domestic robots are supposed to free up time so that you can do other things , but watching how the roomba deals with obstacles is strangely compelling .
it is capable of sensing its surroundings , and does not simply try to adhere to a pre planned route , so it is not upset if furniture is moved , or if it is picked up and taken to clean another room .
its infra red sensors enable it to slow down before reaching an obstacle such as a dozy cat changing direction and setting off again .
it steadily works its way around the room , figuring out how to get out from under the television stand or untangle itself from a stray game boy recharging lead .
watch it for long enough , and you can sometimes predict its next move .
the machine has a dirt sensor and flashes a blue light when it finds things to clean up .
only when it detects no more dirt does it stop going over the same area and , eventually , conclude that the whole room is clean .
it then trundles back to dock at its recharging station .
so the first observation of life with a domestic robot is that you will keep watching it before you trust it completely .
after all , when automatic washing machines first appeared , people used to draw up a chair and sit and watch them complete their wash , rinse and spin cycles .
now they just load them , switch them on and leave them to it .
the second observation is that , despite their current level of intelligence , certain allowances must be made to get the best out of a domestic robot .
the roomba can be set up to clean at particular times , and to clean more than one room .
a drop off sensor underneath the robot prevents it from falling down stairs .
all very clever , but what the roomba wilt not do is pick up toys , shoes and other items left lying around .
rooms cared for by robots must be kept tidy .
to start with , children will happily put things away in order to watch the robot set off , but unfortunately the novelty soon wears off .
similar allowances must be made for other domestic robots .
swedens husqvarna recently launched a new version of its automower lawn mowing robot .
before it can be used , a wire must be placed around the perimeter of the lawn to define the part to be cut .
if toys and other obstacles are not cleared from the lawn before it starts work , the robot will steer around them , leaving uncut areas .
however , the latest version can top up its batteries with solar power , or send its owner a text message if it gets into trouble trying to climb a mole hill .
but there is still only a limited range of domestic robots .
machines that mop the floor , clean a swimming pool and clear muck from guttering are made by irobot .
several surveillance robots are also on offer .
the rovio , made by wowwee of hong kong , is a wi fi enabled webcam , mounted on an extending arm , which rides along smoothly on a nimble set of three wheels .
its movement can be remotely operated over the internet via a laptop or mobile phone .
in the latter case , two way communication allows the operator to see and talk via the machine .
so you could , for instance , shout at the cat if it is sleeping on your best sofa .
some machines are called robots even though they can not move around .
put a damp shirt on it , and it puffs up to remove the creases .
similarly , there are elaborate trouser presses that aspire to be robots .
but do these devices really count as robots ?
if so , then surely dishwashers and washing machines do , too .
yet whatever shape or size robots come in , many will be adored .
another important observation from living with a robot is that it tends to become part of the family .
people give them names , and if they have to be sent back for repair , they carefully add a mark to them to ensure they get the same machine back , says nancy dussault smith of irobot .
when it comes to cutting down trees , satellite data reveals a shift from the patterns of the past .
a globally , roughly 13 million hectares of forest are destroyed each year .
such deforestation has long been driven by farmers desperate to earn a living or by loggers building new roads into pristine forest .
but now new data appears to show that big , block clearings that reflect industrial deforestation have come to dominate , rather than these smaller scale efforts that leave behind long , narrow swaths of cleared land .
geographer ruth defries of columbia university and her colleagues used satellite images to analyse tree clearing in countries ringing the tropics , representing 98 per cent of all remaining tropical forest .
there was a time when we thought humans were special in so many ways .
now we know better .
we are not the only species that feels emotions , empathises with others or abides by a moral code .
neither are we the only ones with personalities , cultures and the ability to design and use tools .
we alone have the capacity for language .
alas , it turns out we are not so special in this respect either .
key to the revolutionary reassessment of our talent for communication is the way we think about language itself .
where once it was seen as a monolith , a discrete and singular entity , today scientists find it is more productive to think of language as a suite of abilities .
viewed this way , it becomes apparent that the component parts of language are not as unique as the whole .
take gesture , arguably the starting point for language .
until recently , it was considered uniquely human but not any more .
mike tomasello of the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig , germany , and others have compiled a list of gestures observed in monkeys , gibbons , gorillas , chimpanzees , bonobos and orang utans , which reveals that gesticulation plays a large role in their communication .
ape gestures can involve touch , vocalising or eye movement , and individuals wait until they have another apes attention before making visual or auditory gestures .
if their gestures go unacknowledged , they will often repeat them or touch the recipient .
in an experiment carried out in 2006 by erica cartmill and richard byrne from the university of st andrews in the uk , they got a person to sit on a chair with some highly desirable food such as banana to one side of them and some bland food such as celery to the other .
the orang utans , who could see the person and the food from their enclosures , gestured at their human partners to encourage them to push the desirable food their way .
if the person feigned incomprehension and offered the bland food , the animals would change their gestures just as humans would in a similar situation .
if the human seemed to understand while being somewhat confused , giving only half the preferred food , the apes would repeat and exaggerate their gestures again in exactly the same way a human would .
such findings highlight the fact that the gestures of non human primates are not merely innate reflexes but are learned , flexible and under voluntary control all characteristics that are considered prerequisites for human like communication .
as well as gesturing , pre linguistic infants babble .
at about five months , babies start to make their first speech sounds , which some researchers believe contain a random selection of all the phonemes humans can produce .
but as children learn the language of their parents , they narrow their sound repertoire to fit the model to which they are exposed , producing just the sounds of their native language as well as its classic intonation patterns .
indeed , they lose their polymath talents so effectively that they are ultimately unable to produce some sounds think about the difficulty some speakers have producing the english th .
dolphin calves also pass through a babbling phase , laurance doyle from the seti institute in mountain view , california , brenda mccowan from the university of california at davis and their colleagues analysed the complexity of baby dolphin sounds and found it looked remarkably like that of babbling infants , in that the young dolphins had a much wider repertoire of sound than adults .
this suggests that they practise the sounds of their species , much as human babies do , before they begin to put them together in the way characteristic of mature dolphins of their species .
of course , language is more than mere sound it also has meaning .
while the traditional , cartoonish version of animal communication renders it unclear , unpredictable and involuntary , it has become clear that various species are able to give meaning to particular sounds by connecting them with specific ideas .
dolphins use signature whistles , so called because it appears that they name themselves .
each develops a unique moniker within the first year of life and uses it whenever it meets another dolphin .
one of the clearest examples of animals making connections between specific sounds and meanings was demonstrated by klaus zuberbuhler and katie slocombe of the university of st andrews in the uk .
they noticed that chimps at edinburgh zoo appeared to make rudimentary references to objects by using distinct cries when they came across different kinds of food .
highly valued foods such as bread would elicit high pitched grunts , less appealing ones , such as an apple , got low pitched grunts .
zuberbuhler and slocombe showed not only that chimps could make distinctions in the way they vocalised about food , but that other chimps understood what they meant .
when played recordings of grunts that were produced for a specific food , the chimps looked in the place where that food was usually found .
they also searched longer if the cry had signalled a prized type of food .
clearly animals do have greater talents for communication than we realised .
humans are still special , but it is a far more graded , qualified kind of special than it used to be .
sometimes work , study or an sense of adventure take us out of our familiar surroundings to go and live in a different culture .
the experience can be difficult , even shocking .
almost everyone who studies , lives or works abroad has problems adjusting to a new culture .
this response is commonly referred to as culture shock .
culture shock can be defined as the physical and emotional discomfort a person experiences when entering a culture different from their own .
for people moving to australia , price has identified certain values which may give rise to culture shock .
firstly , he argues that australians place a high value on independence and personal choice .
this means that a teacher or course tutor will not tell students what to do , but will give them a number of options and suggest they work out which one is the best in their circumstances .
it also means that they are expected to take action if something goes wrong and seek out resources and support for themselves .
australians are also prepared to accept a range of opinions rather than believing there is one truth .
this means that in an educational setting , students will be expected to form their own opinions and defend the reasons for that point of view and the evidence for it .
price also comments that australians are uncomfortable with differences in status and hence idealise the idea of treating everyone equally .
an illustration of this is that most adult australians call each other by their first names .
this concern with equality means that australians are uncomfortable taking anything too seriously and are even ready to joke about themselves .
australians believe that life should have a balance between work and leisure time .
as a consequence , some students may be critical of others who they perceive as doing nothing but study .
australian notions of privacy mean that areas such as financial matters , appearance and relationships are only discussed with close friends .
while people may volunteer such information , they may resent someone actually asking them unless the friendship is firmly established .
even then , it is considered very impolite to ask someone what they earn .
with older people , it is also rude to ask how old they are , why they are not married or why they do not have children .
it is also impolite to ask people how much they have paid for something , unless there is a very good reason for asking .
kohls describes culture shock as a process of change marked by four basic stages .
during the first stage , the new arrival is excited to be in a new place , so this is often referred to as the honeymoon stage .
like a tourist , they are intrigued by all the new sights and sounds , new smells and tastes of their surroundings .
they may have some problems , but usually they accept them as just part of the novelty .
at this point , it is the similarities that stand out , and it seems to the newcomer that people everywhere and their way of life are very much alike .
this period of euphoria may last from a couple of weeks to a month , but the letdown is inevitable .
during the second stage , known as the are jection stage , the newcomer starts to experience difficulties due to the differences between the new culture and the way they were accustomed to living .
the initial enthusiasm turns into irritation , frustration , anger and depression , and these feelings may have the effect of people rejecting the new culture so that they notice only the things that cause them trouble , which they then complain about .
in addition , they may feel homesick , bored , withdrawn and irritable during this period as well .
fortunately , most people gradually learn to adapt to the new culture and move on to the third stage , known as adjustment and reorientation .
during this stage a transition occurs to a new optimistic attitude .
as the newcomer begins to understand more of the new culture , they are able to interpret some of the subtle cultural clues which passed by unnoticed earlier .
now things make more sense and the culture seems more familiar .
as a result , they begin to develop problem solving skills , and feelings of disorientation and anxiety no longer affect them .
in kohlss model , in the fourth stage , newcomers undergo a process of adaptation .
they have settled into the new culture , and this results in a feeling of direction and self confidence .
they have accepted the new food , drinks , habits and customs and may even find themselves enjoying some of the very customs that bothered them so much previously .
in addition , they realise that the new culture has good and bad things to offer and that no way is really better than another , just different .
welcome to this talk about australia .
im going to give you some key facts figures about the country , which i hope you will find of interest .
first , lets talk about geography .
australia is in oceania , between the indian ocean and the south pacific ocean .
australia is ranked as a continent .
its the smallest continent , having an area of 76 million sq km .
of that , 68920 sq km is water , so in land area .
australia is slightly smaller than the us .
in fact , australia is the worlds sixth largest country .
today , many governments are promoting organic or natural farming methods that avoid use of pesticides and other artificial products .
the aim is to show that they care about the environment and about peoples health .
but is this the right approach ?
europe is now the biggest market for organic food in the world , expanding for 25 percent a year over the past 10 years .
so what is the attraction of organic food for some people ?
the really important thing is that organic sounds more natural .
eating organic is a way of defining oneself as natural , good , caring , different from junk food scoffing masses .
kids go from goo goo to talkative one step at a time .
look at this , he says , i am a free man .
i go anywhere i want now .
he describes his stock buying activities , and then his phone rings .
few things are as funny as a baby who talks like an adult .
why do not young children express themselves clearly like adults ?
many people assume children learn to talk by copying what they hear .
in other words , they listen to the words adults use and the situations in which they use them and imitate accordingly .
behaviourism , the scientific approach that dominated american cognitive science for the first half of the 20th century , made exactly this argument .
however , this copycat theory can not explain why toddlers are not as conversational as adults .
after all , you never hear literate adults express themselves in one word sentences like bottle or doggie .
in fact , its easy for scientists to show that a copycat theory of language acquisition can not explain childrens first words .
what is hard for them to do is to explain these first words , and how they fit into the language acquisition pattern .
over the past half century , scientists have settled on two reasonable possibilities .
the first of these is called the mental developmental hypothesis .
it states that one year olds speak in baby talk because their immature brains can not handle adult speech .
children do not learn to walk until their bodies are ready .
likewise , they do not speak multi word sentences or use word endings and function words before their brains are ready .
the second is called the stages of language hypothesis , which states that the stages of progress in child speech are necessary stages in language development .
a basketball player can not perfect his or her jump shot before learning to shoot .
similarly , children learn to multiply after they have learned to add .
this is the order in which children are taught not the reverse .
theres evidence , for instance , that children do not usually begin speaking in two word sentences until they have learned a certain number of single words .
in other words , until they have crossed that linguistic threshold , the word combination process does not get going .
under the mental development hypothesis , language learning should depend on the childs age and level of mental development when he or she starts learning a language .
linder the stages of language hypothesis , however , it should not depend on such patterns , but only on the completion of previous stages .
in 2007 , researchers at harvard university , who were studying the two theories , found a clever way to test them .
more than 20000 internationally adopted children enter the us each year .
many of them no longer hear their birth language after they arrive , and they must learn english more or less the same way infants do that is , by listening and by trial and error .
international adoptees do not take classes or use a dictionary when they are learning their new tongue and most of them do not have a well developed first language .
all of these factors make them an ideal population in which to test these competing hypotheses about how language is learned .
neuroscientists jesse snedeker , joy geren and carissa shafto studied the language development of 27 children adopted from china between the ages of two and five years .
these children began learning english at an older age than us natives and had more mature brains with which to tackle the task .
even so , just as with american born infants , their first english sentences consisted of single words and were largely bereft of function words , word endings and verbs .
the adoptees then went through the same stages as typical american born children , albeit at a faster clip .
the adoptees and native children started combining words in sentences when their vocabulary reached the same sizes , further suggesting that what matters is not how old you are or how mature your brain is , but the number of words you know .
this finding that having more mature brains did not help the adoptees avoid the toddler talk stage suggests that babies speak in babytalk not because they have baby brains , but because they have only just started learning and need time to gain enough vocabulary to be able to expand their conversations .
before long , the one word stage will give way to the two word stage and so on .
learning how to chat like an adult is a gradual process .
but this potential answer also raises an even older and more difficult question .
adult immigrants who learn a second language rarely achieve the same proficiency in a foreign language as the average child raised as a native speaker .
researchers have long suspected there is a critical period for language development , after which it can not proceed with full success to fluency .
yet we still do not understand this critical period or know why it ends .
science inspired the world wide web , and the web has responded by changing science .
that was the bland title of a document written in march 1989 by a then little known computer scientist called tim berners lee , who was working at cern , europes particle physics laboratory , near geneva .
his proposal modestly called the world wide web , has achieved far more than anyone expected at the time .
the web as everyone now knows has many more uses than the original idea of linking electronic documents about particle physics in laboratories around the world .
but among all the changes it has brought about , from personal social networks to political campaigning , it has also transformed the business of doing science itself , as the man who invented it hoped it would .
it allows journals to be published online and links to be made from one paper to another .
it also permits professional scientists to recruit thousands of amateurs to give them a hand .
one project of this type , called galaxyzoo , used these unpaid workers to classify one million images of galaxies into various types .
this project , which was intended to help astronomers understand how galaxies evolve , was so successful that a successor has now been launched , to classify the brightest quarter of a million of them in finer detail .
people working for a more modest project called herbaria home examine scanned images of handwritten notes about old plants stored in british museums .
this will allow them to track the changes in the distribution of species in response to climate change .
another new scientific application of the web is to use it as an experimental laboratory .
it is allowing social scientists , in particular , to do things that were previously impossible .
in one project , scientists made observations about the sizes of human social networks using data from facebook .
a second investigation of these networks , produced by bernardo huberman of hp labs , hewlett packards research arm in pato alto , california , looked at twitter , a social networking website that allows people to post short messages to long lists of friends .
at first glance , the networks seemed enormous the 300000 twitterers sampled had 80 friends each , on average , but some listed up to 1000 .
closer statistical inspection , however , revealed that the majority of the messages were directed at a few specific friends .
this showed that an individuals active social network is far smaller than his clan .
dr huberman has also helped uncover several laws of web surfing , including the number of times an average person will go from web page to web page on a given site before giving up , and the details of the winner takes all phenomenon , whereby a few sites on a given subject attract most of the attention , and the rest get very little .
scientists have been good at using the web to carry out research .
however , they have not been so effective at employing the latest web based social networking tools to open up scientific discussion and encourage more effective collaboration .
journalists are now used to having their articles commented on by dozens of readers .
indeed , many bloggers develop and refine their essays as a result of these comments .
yet although people have tried to have scientific research reviewed in the same way , most researchers only accept reviews from a few anonymous experts .
when nature , one of the worlds most respected scientific journals , experimented with open peer review in 2006 , the results were disappointing .
only 5 percent of the authors it spoke to agreed to have their article posted for review on the web and their instinct turned out to be right , because almost half of the papers attracted no comments .
michael nielsen , an expert on quantum computers , belongs to a new wave of scientist bloggers who want to change this .
he thinks the reason for the lack of comments is that potential reviewers lack incentive .
the history of an invention that makes life more pleasant .
willis carrier designed the first air conditioning unit in 1902 , just a year after graduating from cornell university with a masters in engineering .
at a brooklyn printing plant , fluctuations in heat and moisture were causing the size of the printing paper to keep changing slightly , making it hard to align different colours .
carriers invention made it possible to control temperature and humidity levels and so align the colours .
the invention also allowed industries such as film , processed food , textiles and pharmaceuticals to improve the quality of their products .
vivienne wait reports on how the sahara desert could offer a truly green solution to europes energy problems .
for years , the sahara has been regarded by many europeans as a terra incognita of little economic value or importance .
but this idea may soon change completely .
politicians and scientists on both sides of the mediterranean are beginning to focus on the saharas potential to provide power for europe in the future .
they believe the deserts true value comes from the fact that it is dry and empty .
some areas of the sahara reach 45 degrees centigrade on many afternoons .
it is , in other words , a gigantic natural storehouse of solar energy .
a few years ago , scientists began to calculate just how much energy the sahara holds .
they were astonished at the answer .
in theory , a 90600 square kilometre chunk of the sahara smaller than portugal and a little over 1 percent of its total area could yield the same amount of electricity as all the worlds power plants combined .
a smaller square of 15500 square kilometres about the size of connecticut could provide electricity for europes 500 million people .
i admit i was sceptical until i did the calculations myself , says michael pawlyn , director of exploration architecture , one of three british environmental companies comprising the sahara forest project , which is testing solar plants in oman and the united arab emirates .
pawlyn calls the saharas potential staggering .
at the moment , no one is proposing the creation of a solar power station the size of a small country .
but a relatively well developed technology exists , which proponents say could turn the saharas heat and sunlight into a major source of electricity concentrating solar power .
unlike solar panels , which convert sunlight directly into electricity , csp utilises mirrors which focus light on water pipes or boilers to produce very hot steam to operate the turbines of generators .
small csp plants have produced power in californias mojave desert since the 1980s .
the sahara forest project proposes building csp plants in areas below sea level so that sea water can flow into them .
this water would then be purified and used for powering turbines and washing dust off the mirrors .
waste water would then supply irrigation to areas around the stations , creating lush oases hence the forest in the groups name .
but producing significant quantities of electricity means building huge arrays of mirrors and pipes across hundreds of miles of remote desert , which is expensive .
gerry wolff , an engineer who heads desertec , an international consortium of solar power scientists , says they have estimated it will cost about 59 billion to begin transmitting power from the sahara by 2020 .
building plants is just part of the challenge .
one of the drawbacks to csp technology is that it works at maximum efficiency only in sunny , hot climates and deserts tend to be distant from population centres .
to supply europe with 20 percent of its electricity needs , more than 19300 kilometres of cables would need to be laid under the mediterranean , says gunnar asplund , head of hvdc research at abb power technologies in ludvika , sweden .
indeed , to use renewable sources of power , including solar , wind and tidal , europe will need to build completely new electrical grids .
thats because existing infrastructures , built largely for the coal fired plants that supply 80 percent of europes power , would not be suitable for carrying the amount of electricity generated by the sahara .
germanys government run aerospace centre , which researches energy , estimates that replacing those lines could raise the cost of building solar plants in the sahara and sending significant amounts of power to europe to about 485 billion over the next 40 years .
generous government subsidies will be needed .
of course it costs a lot of money , says asplund .
its a lot cheaper to burn coal than to make solar power in the sahara .
meanwhile , some companies are getting started .
seville engineering company abengoa is building one solar thermal plant in algeria and another in morocco , while a third is being built in egypt by a spanish japanese joint venture .
the next step will be to get cables in place .
although the european parliament has passed a law that aids investors who help the continent reach its goal of getting 20 percent of its power from renewable energy by 2020 , it could take years to create the necessary infrastructure .
nicholas dunlop , secretary general of the london based ng0 e parliament , thinks companies should begin transmitting small amounts of solar power as soon as the north african plants begin operating , by linking a few cable lines under the med .
i call it the lego method , he says .
build it piece by piece .
if it can be shown that power from the sahara can be produced profitably , he says , companies and governments will soon jump in .
if they do , perhaps airplane passengers flying across the sahara will one day count the mirrors and patches of green instead of staring at sand .
supermarkets take great care over the way the goods they sell are arranged .
this is because they know a lot about how to persuade people to buy things .
when you enter a supermarket , it takes some time for the mind to get into a shopping mode .
this is why the area immediately inside the entrance of a supermarket is known as the decompression zone .
people need to slow down and take stock of the surroundings , even if they are regulars .
over the years richard wiseman has tried to unravel the truth about deception investigating the signs that give away a liar .
in the 1970s , as part of a large scale research programme exploring the area of interspecies communication , dr francine patterson from stanford university attempted to teach two lowland gorillas called michael and koko a simplified version of sign language .
according to patterson , the great apes were capable of holding meaningful conversations , and could even reflect upon profound topics , such as love and death .
during the project , their trainers believe they uncovered instances where the two gorillas linguistic skills seemed to provide reliable evidence of intentional deceit .
in one example , koko broke a toy cat , and then signed to indicate that the breakage had been caused by one of her trainers .
an astonishingly intricate project is being undertaken to restore a legendary theatrical dress , angela wintle explains .
on december 28th , 1888 , the curtain rose on daring new stage revival of shakespeares macbeth at the lyceum theatre in london .
topping the bill , playing lady macbeth , a main character in the play , was ellen terry .
she was the greatest and most adored english actress of the age .
but she did not achieve this devotion through her acting ability alone .
she knew the power of presentation and carefully cultivated her image .
that first night was no exception .
when she walked on stage for the famous banqueting scene , her appearance drew a collective gasp from the audience .
a long , emerald and sea green gown with tapering sleeves , surmounted by a velvet cloak , which glistened and sparkled eerily in the limelight .
yet this was no mere stage trickery .
the effect had been achieved using hundreds of wings from beetles .
the gown later named the beetlewing dress became one of the most iconic and celebrated costumes of the age .
terry was every bit as remarkable as her costumes .
at 31 , she came a leading lady at the lyceum theatre and for two decades , she set about bringing culture to the masses .
the production she worked on were extravagant and daring .
shakespeares plays were ruthlessly cut .
some people were critical , but they missed the point .
the innovations sold tickets and brought new audiences to see masterpieces that they would never otherwise have seen .
however , it was a painter who immortalised her , john singer sargent had been so stuck by terrys appearance at that first performance that he asked her to model for him , and his famous portrait of 1889 , now at the tate gallery in london , showed her with a glint in her eye , holding a crown over her flame red hair .
but while the painting remains almost as fresh as the day it was painted , the years have not been so kind to the dress .
its delicate structure , combined with the cumulative effects of time , has mean it is now in an extremely fragile condition .
thus , two years ago , a fundraising project was launched by britains national trust to pay for its conservation .
it turned to textile conservator zenzie tinker to do the job .
zenzie loves historical dress because of the link with the past .
working on costumes like the beetlewing dress give you a real sense of the people who wore them .
you can see the sweat stains and wear marks .
but its quite unusual to know who actually wore a garment .
thats the thing that makes the beetlewing project so special .
before any of zenzies conservation work can begin , she and her team will conduct a thorough investigation to help determine what changes have been made to the dress and when .
this will involve close examination of the dress for sings of damage and wear , and will be aided by comparing it with john singer sargents painting and contemporary photographs .
then zenzie and the national trust will decide how far back to take the reconstruction , as some members feel that even the most recent changes are now part of the history of the dress .
the first stages in the actual restoration will involve delicate surface cleaning , using a small vacuum suction device .
once the level of reconstruction has been determine , the original crocheted overdress will be stitched onto a dyed net support before repairs begin .
its going to be extraordinarily difficult , because the original cloth is quite stretchy , so we have deliberately chosen net because that has a certain amount of flexibility in it too , say zenzie .
when the dress is displayed , none of our work will be noticeable , but we will retain all the evidence on the reverse so that future experts will be able to see exactly what we have done and i will produce a detailed report .
zenzie has estimated that the project , costing about 30000 , will require more than 700 hours work .
it will be a huge undertaking and i do not think the trust has ever spent quite as much on a costume before , she say .
but this dress is unique .
its very unusual to see this level of workmanship on a theatrical costume , and it must have looked spectacular on stage .
if terry was alive today , theres no doubt she would be delighted .
unlike many other actresses , she valued her costumes because she kept and reused them time and time again .
id like to think shed see our contribution as part of the ongoing history of the dress , says zenzie .
her comments were slightly offensive , .
notice how intensifying adverbs are used to mean extremely or completely in the sentences below .
jane really enjoys doing housework .
you should see her flat its always spotlessly clean .
i hope he feels thoroughly ashamed .
its blatantly obvious that olga is only interested in richard because hes stinking rich .
i wonder what she will do when she finds out hes wildly exaggerated how rich he really is .
i do not know what i was worrying about !
the exam turned out to be dead easy .
note the softening adverbs used in these sentences from newspapers .
the spokesperson said the new insurance scheme was only slightly different from the old one .
the chief executive said he was mildly surprised by the public interest in the firms plans .
alfredo scaluzzis new film is loosely based on a nineteenth century novel .
ms giroa said she regarded reports that she was about to seek a divorce as faintly ridiculous .
alternatives to verb .
other adverbs collocate with certain adjectives and verbs but not with others .
i would not say no to a nice cup of tea .
needless to say it goes without saying that the workers voted in favour of the wage increase .
janna did not say a word when i told her i was leaving .
generally speaking , people are aware of the environmental consequences of their actions .
strictly speaking , a tomato is a fruit and not a vegetable because it contains seeds .
she always speaks very highly of you .
charlie , stop mumbling and speak properly .
i do not understand a word you are saying .
now we have got to know each other , i think its time we talked business .
at first , andrew appears to be talking nonsense but after a while i realise hes actually talking a lot of sense .
i will tell you a secret but please do not tell anybody else .
the old woman looked at glens palm and began to tell his fortune .
i asked why she did not trust him but she would not give me a reason .
the charity state its aim as being to help underprivileged children .
the staff on reception required each visitor to state their business before issuing them with an entry permit .
in her lecture lucy give an account of her trip to the andes .
the speech got the message about the policy changes across .
i declare hiroshi yamamoto the winner of the global medal .
the old man tried to impart his knowledge to his sons .
the journalists get amazing stories but he wo not divulge his sources .
the internet is powerful means of disseminating information .
we notified the police of the burglary .
although found guilty , robson continued to protest his innocence .
he professed ignorance of the dent to the car but i think he was lying .
did you break the news to her that her mother is in prison ?
the justice minister said he would abide by the decision of the high court to free the prisoner .
the new regional governor will take up office on 1 march , following his partys recent election victory .
the education commission has been asked by the government to come up with an alternative to the present schools examination system .
the police , acting on a tip off , arrested the thieves as they left the building .
hollywood star glenda nixon has filed to divorce .
she and her husband kevin lomax have lived apart for the last six months .
the police intend to come down heavily on anyone causing trouble at tomorrows football final .
when she saw the damage the flood had done to her house , she burst into tears .
the club had to dip into their emergency funds to pay for the repairs to the roof .
can i jot down your email address ?
hes a tough guy .
he saw off several intruders who were trying to break into his house .
its difficult to adhere to ones beliefs when one is being constantly attacked .
it is often difficult to remember the meanings of phrasal verbs .
when a phrasal verb has a set of collocations as in the examples in c , write them down together .
this is a good way of remembering the meaning .
i honestly think we can win the match tonight .
i am not sure if i want to invest in your business or not , but i will give it some thought .
bear in mind that there are often delays to flights during bad weather .
its common knowledge that jane is looking for a new job .
my teenage son has not yet grasped the importance of revising for exams .
charles park and sons have announced record profits for last year despite a slight decline in demand for one of their key products , caused by increasingly fierce competition in the sector .
they say they are already well on the way to meeting their targets for the first quarter .
their new models will go into production in the spring and this is expected to boost their sales and profits even more .
the government today announced its intentions to stimulate growth in the south west by allocating a large part of its development budget to industrial projects in the area .
roger middle , who chaired the committee working on this scheme , said that local people welcomed the decision , which should generate more business for local firms .
most companies carry out surveys to find out what customers or potential customers feel about their products and services .
i answered one recently about online shopping .
i personally much prefer to go shopping on the high street rather than to shop on the internet .
you get a much better impression of whether something is good value for money or truly fit for purpose when you can touch it .
and i feel if you have a problem with a purchase , its easier to go back and make a complaint if you have bought something from a shop .
but shopping online has its advantages , and many companies offer you a discount when you place an order online .
and , of course , lots of online companies have plenty of regular customers and plenty of satisfied customers .
i ordered this skirt on the internet and i am furious .
on their website they promise prompt service .
in fact they said they offered a next day service but it took ten days to come .
when i rang up to complain they put me on hold and then never got back to me !
then , when the skirt eventually arrived , the zip was broken .
its really poor quality though the advert says all their clothes are top quality .
i am going to kick up such a fuss .
of course , i will demand a full refund , but id really like an apology as well .
and i will certainly take my custom elsewhere in future .
if you have grounds for complaint , please contact our head office at the address below .
we pride ourselves on providing an excellent service and all our products conform to safety regulations .
we honour all commitments to customers .
we take very seriously any complaints about poor service .
so if you feel that one of our products does not come up to standard , then we will immediately offer you a replacement .
we promise to handle all complaints promptly .
when she was a small child , amelias teachers identified her as having unusual intelligence and remarkable mental agility , and they put her on a special programme for gifted children .
amelia won a scholarship to attend a local grammar school .
by the age of eighteen , she was a straight a student , and she secured a place at one of the countrys most prestigious seats of learning to read english literature .
in the first academic year of the english literature programme , the core subjects were the development of the novel and contemporary poetry .
amelia had a large number of set texts to read .
it was hard work but she loved it .
her professors were all distinguished scholars and her courses were taught by some of the worlds leading authorities in the field .
she completed her studies with considerable success and graduated from university last year .
in the meantime , her parents have decided that it is time they made up for their lack of formal education and they have signed up for a number of evening courses .
eventually they hope to meet the entry requirements for university entrance and to be able to complete a degree as mature students .
preparing for a research assignment .
here is an extract from a study skills leaflet given to students at a university , containing advice on how to tackle a research project .
note the collocations in bold .
all students are expected to submit a 5000 word report , detailing their research project and presenting their findings .
select a research topic in discussion with your tutor .
you will need to formulate a working hypothesis when you begin your study .
the purpose of your research is to see if your data supports the hypothesis .
if you are undertaking a study which involves informants or volunteers , read the advice on research ethics in the department handbook .
a key section of your report will be a literature review .
this is not simply a summary of your background reading , but an in depth critique of the most important books and articles , where you can show your awareness of current research .
make sure you provide a rationale for your study , and always back up your conclusions with evidence , never exaggerate any claims you make .
wherever appropriate , you should lay out your results in the form of tables , charts and diagrams .
other collocations often used in essays , reports and assignments .
the book offers a vigorous defence of free market economics and makes the case for privatisation of all state owned industries .
it confronts issues which are of current importance in developing countries .
mcgraw puts the case for single sex primary education but he fails to tackle all of the issues that opponents of this approach to early schooling have raised .
this essay can not give an exhaustive account of climate change , it focuses only on the risk to sea levels .
recent research indicates that sea levels are rising very rapidly .
physicists have recently begun to formulate new theories about the nature of the universe .
the big question is how to test these theories .
although kristovs book covers a lot of ground , it does not offer a full explanation of the events leading to the civil war .
indeed , the thrust of kristovs argument is that such an account can not be written , since the people with first hand knowledge of those events are no longer living .
this essay provides a critical analysis5 of international trade agreements .
types of language and conversation .
some conversations are not serious .
they consist of idle chatter , in which the speakers just exchange pleasantries or share juicy gossip about their friends and colleagues , exchanging news and spreading rumours .
rumours are always flying around in any society , of course .
but sometimes when you engage someone in conversation , it may become more serious .
you may open your heart to the person you are talking to , for example .
you may even find yourself drawn into an argument .
some people always want to win an argument .
for others losing the argument is not important as they simply enjoy a good discussion .
if you are in a very noisy place , it can become impossible to carry on a conversation of any kind and it is also hard for parents to hold a conversation when there are small children in the room .
managing topics .
hi jane , as you know , i wanted to talk to my parents yesterday about my plans for dropping out of university but i did not have much luck .
first of all , i found it very hard to broach the subject .
as soon as i started explaining how badly i wanted to start earning , one of them would change the subject .
it was as if they were deliberately trying to avoid something they sensed was going to be a problem .
eventually i managed to bring up the subject again and they finally started to take me seriously .
for leaving and just put things as simply as i could .
but then they started to bombard me with questions .
why did i really want to leave ?
what would i do ?
did i realise that i would get a much better job with a degree ?
dad did not listen to my answers he just started making broad generalisations about the importance of education .
he went on and on for about half an hour before telling me to drop the subject and never refer to it again .
so i am not sure what to do next .
any advice ?
adjectives noun phrases .
tv dramas today use much more bad strong foul language than they did 40 years ago .
please try to express your feelings without using four letter words .
you are a teacher , are not you ?
was his opening gambit .
do not make any rash promises .
think before you agree to anything .
shes full of empty promises .
you should not believe a word she says .
do i regret anything ?
thats a tough question .
the police have been carrying out a nationwide search for 22 year old chris tail , who has not been seen since trouble broke out on saturday night at the hotel where he was working .
this evening they announced that they had found some vital clues but there are currently no plans to call off the search .
following the robbery of over 10m from its main city branch , the bank has offered a substantial reward to anyone providing information leading to the recovery of the money .
management and workers at the troubled longside car factory have finally agreed to enter into talks and hopes are growing that they may soon reach agreement .
the dispute arose some weeks ago when management tried to introduce new working conditions .
workers have held demonstrations in the city in support of longside staff .
management described the situation as a test of strength and union attempts to negotiate a settlement have so far proved unsuccessful .
however , an independent arbitrator has acted as a go between and has succeeded in brokering an agreement to talk .
tv chiefs have bowed to public pressure and have entered into an agreement not to show scenes of gun violence on prime time television .
they will hold a press conference later today where they will explain their decision to impose this degree of censorship .
golfer rick tate has issued an abject apology for his disorderly behaviour at the weekend .
however , he refused point blank to provide an explanation for his behaviour and today further damaging disclosures about his private life have been published in the daily planet .
the leader of the opposition has accused the prime minister of misleading the electorate in his public pronouncements on security .
he has demanded that the pm clarify his position without delay .
the pms office has declined to comment .
the head of the national union of students has re opened the debate on tuition fees as evidence emerges of government plans to raise them still further .
the nus is committed to taking a firm stance against tuition fees and has flatly rejected claims that it may be about to change its position .
the president has issued a statement relating to the health of her husband , who is critically ill in a private hospital following a massive heart attack .
regular updates on his condition will be provided .
migrant workers seeking permission to stay in this country may have to submit a detailed account of their work and personal lives to the visa authorities before they are given leave to stay .
the language of advertisements .
the luxe is a very special hotel .
with us you experience gracious living in truly grand style .
enjoy the unrivalled service at our exclusive restaurant in londons west end .
for long lasting colour and to treatsun damaged hair use .
ecocream has anti ageing properties .
it has been clinically proven to banish wrinkles .
on the m82 motorway traffic has been severely disrupted owing to an accident .
currently all traffic is being diverted through the village of oxtoe .
motorists are advised to avoid the area as heavy traffic is expected on many side roads for the rest of the day .
traffic is very dense on all routes into the city at the moment because of this evenings football cup final .
lengthy delays are expected around the national stadium area .
the heavy traffic is not expected to die down till around 10 pm .
so walk or cycle to the match if you want to avoid getting stuck in traffic .
if you are thinking of using the n27 this morning , do not !
traffic is currently tailing back over ten kilometres , following an accident near junction 14 .
police say traffic is building up on all approach roads and is not expected to case off traffic has been severely disrupted during the next three hours .
learning to drive .
i am learning to drive at last !
all the jobs i want require a valid driving licence , so i have no choice .
i am hoping to take my driving test in about four months time , but the last lesson did not go too well .
i am finding it really hard to change gear .
getting into reverse is particularly hard and i can sense my instructor flinching whenever i grind the gears .
perhaps i should have opted to learn on an automatic car !
much better to learn on a manual car then you can drive anything after your test .
driving tests are awful .
i remember mine when i came to the uk and needed a current uk licence .
the examiner told me to bear left at a junction and i went right !
id never driven a right hand drive car before .
i had to remember to keep to the left instead of to the right .
it was a nightmare .
a new kind of transport .
a bike that travels sideways .
it has been hailed as the first major development in bicycle design for 150 years .
the sideways hike has a steerable wheel with a set of handlebars at cither end .
the cyclist sits sideways and operates a wheel with each hand .
however , some people do not like the fact that the rider does not face the oncoming traffic .
its key advantage is that its more manoeuvrable than a conventional bike .
its very like snowboarding because you are moving sideways .
that affords you tremendous grace , though it will never win you the tour de france !
read catherines account of her trip to south america .
id always had a thirst for adventure and often get itchy feet so i could hardly contain my excitement when i set off for south america for a year .
after a 12 hour flight to sao paulo , brazil , i had another long flight to manaus in the amazon .
then i went by bus to a smaller town .
it was a very arduous journey .
i should have broken the journey somewhere but i did it all in one go .
next time , i will have a stopover in sao paolo , have a bit of a rest and do the sights there before traveling on .
after two fantastic weeks in the amazon i got a flight on a low cost airline to rio de janeiro .
i then tried to get a flight to peru but they were all full , so they put me on standby .
luckily i got a seat on the flight i wanted .
in peru i went trekking in the andes with a group .
the guide took us off the beaten track and i felt like an intrepid explorer from another century in some unexplored wilderness .
there was a real sense of adventure .
one day we actually got hopelessly lost .
it was getting dark and we were afraid theyd have to send out a search party to look for us .
but then we met some locals who were very friendly and helped us get back on to our path .
it was a great trip .
articles about travel adventures .
note the collocations in these brief magazine items about travel adventures .
north pole expedition .
some longed for sunny spells have boosted the spirits of three british women hoping to set a polar trekking record .
the women have faced severe weather conditions since setting off to walk to the north pole 18 days ago .
however , the teams base camp manager said she had spoken to them yesterday by satellite phone and they had been relieved to report the weather was sunny and their spirits were high .
london to tangier by train .
whilst this journey may not compare in terms of sheer epic grandeur to some of the great american train journeys , it does have a special charm all of its own .
it may not be cheap but if you keep your eyes peeled , you can find some surprisingly good deals .
if your budget does not quite stretch to a sleeping compartment , you can always just curl up in your seat for the night .
let the rhythmical motion and the dull rumbles of the train lull you to sleep .
the first leg of the journey gives you very little indication of what lies ahead .
how are things with you ?
i am having a great time here at this sports camp in new zealand .
i am taking the opportunity to do several extreme sports like white water rafting and rock climbing .
at the weekend we went to the mountains and i have acquired quite a taste for snowboarding .
i did not like it much at first i found it really hard to keep my balance .
but my instructor said she was sure id get the hang of it in a couple of hours .
hans brokaw , head of a company making garden furniture , is announcing to his senior staff plans he is making to move the business exclusively to the internet .
as you know , for some time now we have been toying with the idea of transferring all our business to internet only sales as a long term solution to the problem of finding good retail outlets .
you will remember that at the last team meeting rob unveiled a plan to move the line to the web in three phases over nine months .
and philippa did a great job drumming up support for the move among the sales and marketing people .
since then , as you also know , we have had a slight change of plan , and , acting on a suggestion from the logistics team , we have now decided that the move should happen over 12 months .
in order to implement such a plan , we need to draw up a schedule and stick to that schedule .
so id like to make a tentative suggestion .
before we launch the scheme , i think we should invite the web designers to come here and take us through the process from their side .
that will give us the opportunity to exercise greater control over things .
i do not think we should just leave everything to their discretion .
i am just aware of how important its going to be to cover every eventuality before we commit 100 percent to the internet .
we propose to end our relationship with the garden centres where we currently sell .
we have reached this decision after careful consideration .
we do believe that realistically its the only option open to us .
the deciding factor was losing our biggest customer the greenway garden centre chain .
after that , we really had no choice .
good morning , friends , and welcome to our summit , the first of what we plan as an annual event !
i have been waiting for this day with eager anticipation for a long time .
we came up with the idea five years ago and preparations have been underway ever since .
of course , there was a certain amount of necessary groundwork to do before our sponsors were able to reach the decision to support us .
as you are probably aware , the government has recently passed new laws relating to health and safety in the workplace .
there new regulations have been introduced to standardise procedure in workplaces across the country and ensure the employers adhere to standards .
the enclosed guide details the steps you need to take in order to comply with these new laws .
read this extract from a report on getting rid of waste .
disposal of household waste is a daunting task for local authorities .
towns and cities can not just dump such waste and hope it will go away .
dispose of in an irresponsible manner .
household waste contains many materials and substances which are extremely harmful to the environment , and authorities need long term solutions .
efforts to recycle waste are only a partial solution .
in lorchesters bustling centre you can enjoy high quality urban living , with reliable public transport and shops and restaurants whose long opening hours will suit your busy lifestyle .
jerome has just moved from his home village into the big town .
he emails roise about it .
i did it .
i moved into town .
i must say i do not miss the rustic charm of life in the back of beyond .
keep afloat how to manage your finances .
while you are doing your degree , your main source of income may be a student loan or , if you are lucky , a grant or scholarship .
but you may well still need to supplement your income by getting some kind of part time work .
open a current account at the campus bank they have a team there which specialises in helping students with their financial matters .
if you get into debt , try to clear your debts as soon as possible .
if things are difficult , you may have to economise by , say , cutting down on luxuries .
this is far better than running up huge debts .
if you have a credit card debt , try to make a payment every month , however small .
never exceed your agreed credit limit .
its a bad idea to borrow heavily to repay your debts .
always seek advice from your bank about how to clear outstanding debts and pay back loans .
never run up an overdraft if you can avoid it .
if you do need one , remember that most banks will offer students an interest free overdraft .
financial crimes and disputes .
credit card fraud has reached an all time high .
one in ten people are the victims of identity theft and the crime is on the increase .
mr ambrose spent a fortune staying at expensive hotels .
he managed to run up a bill of 7000 at one hotel .
he used his employers funds and falsified records .
he made fraudulent claims for travel expenses .
people are being encouraged to put down a deposit on new homes , thanks to low interest rates .
but if borrowers default on repayments , banks are obliged to call in loans .
the company is now under new management .
its backers have written off debts of 100000 on the promise of new cost cutting measures designed to solve the companys financial problems .
as we can all testify , this countrys economy is strong and getting stronger .
our measures to curb inflation1 have proved highly successful .
the rampant inflation of the previous government is a thing of the past .
inflation currently stands at 2 per cent .
the strength of the current economic climate suggests that interest rates are unlikely to be raised again this year .
this should help us to build up a culture of investing for the long term .
this government has steered the economy through seven years of uninterrupted economic growth .
a trend which is set to continue with our major success in stimulating growth .
and in the latest quarter , the economy has been growing at an annual race of percent .
all indicators show that industry is thriving .
but we are particularly proud of the steady growth experienced by small businesses .
we have made it our aim to safeguard their interests4 5 and the healthy economy we have created has enabled them to increase output .
the plummeting profits caused by the previous governments misguided policies are now safely behind them .
our goal is to establish world class public services through investment and reform in order to ensure that taxpayers receive real value for money .
public spending goes to provide strong and dependable public services .
these are vital to extend opportunity , tackle social exclusion and improve peoples life chances .
the taxes that we levy allow us to allocate resources to achieve that goal .
and we have met with considerable success .
in particular , we must now build on the success of the climate change levy we introduced last year .
another of our goals is to win the battle against the black economy .
if left unchecked , the black economy 1 think here particularly of the loss to our economy of undeclared earnings and other tax evasion practices will push up costs and lead to rising unemployment .
this government is committed to its eradication .
to dream a better life by ken lomond how can we best address the issues surrounding large scale economic migration ?
can economic migration be seen as a force for good , rather than always seen as a problem that must be tackled ?
this book offers a novel solution .
disaster and after by sandra haley should rich nations provide relief when disasters occur in poorer countries , or is this too little , too late ?
haleys book calls for a fresh drive to address the issue , and makes a plea for governments to break the cycle of dependency .
technology in business .
scientists and technologists are pushing back the frontiers of knowledge every day .
scientists publish their findings and those findings are developed into commercial applications .
we have become very skilled at harnessing technology in all sorts of creative ways .
new cutting edge is transforming our daily lives and our businesses .
do you want to enjoy good health ?
or perhaps you want to reduce your stress levels ?
build up your strength by doing plenty of exercise .
its better to start with gentle exercise unless you already do a lot of sport .
expressing views about crime and punishment .
look at these extracts from calls to a radio phone in programme called your call to jeremy , which on this occasion is about crime and punishment .
i want to know why financial criminals in the city always seem to escape punishment , while poor people always seem to receive custodial sentences even for committing minor offences .
my view is that if someone is put on trial and is found guilty and given a sentence , then they should have to serve out their sentence .
releasing someone early for good behaviour is a completely nonsense .
jeremy , id like to point out that there have been a couple of serious miscarriages of justice recently and people do not seem to realise how damaging this is .
no one should face trial on the basis of unreliable evidence or trumped up charges .
we are facing soaring crime rates in this city and its about time the criminals were brought to justice .
and i am sick of hearing about extenuating circumstances that someone had a deprived childhood , or they are not fit to stand trial .
these newspaper clips contain typical collocations about courts and trials .
a key witness gave evidence today in the misthorpe murder trial .
the witness claimed to have seen the accused leaving ms bartrams house .
the trial was adjourned until march 7th .
the accused , 27 year old liam grout , was remanded in custody .
in a unanimous verdict today in raylton district court .
clare irene wilson , 37 years old , was found not guilty of murder .
the judge said the prosecultion had failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that ms wilson was guilty .
mr hanry had denied all knowledge of the alleged fraudulent business deal .
his lawyers attempted to show that derek yeardley was an unreliable witness .
despite suggestions that the judge might dismiss the case , he found in favour of mr hanry and awarded damages to him .
mary jones was released this morning after her lawyers successfully contested the verdict which sentenced her to prison for three years .
the judge , mr james egdon , overturned the verdict in the court of appeal .
mary joens herself did not appear in court but later said that she felt justice had been served .
when a war begins , we can say that war has broken out or violence has erupted in the region .
when one country officially enters into a state of war , then they have declared war on the enemy country .
sometimes , one country performs a pre emptive strike against another for example , if it suspects that the other country is stockpiling weapons that will be used for a future attack .
the other country may view this as an unprovoked attack , and tensions may rise until the area is on the brink of war meaning that war is very probable .
sending in the military is often called deploying troops .
do you have a lot of close friends ?
are they lifelong friends ?
childhood friends ?
have you ever met someone and instantly felt that you have made a friend for life ?
people with a large circle of friends may well have discovered the secret of a long and happy life , according to recent scientific research which suggests that having good friends may actually help us live longer .
for many , the most important friendship is a long term relationship with a partner or a spouse .
however , the research shows that platonic relationship are equally valuable .
ever since he was a newborn baby , horaces adoring parents were convinced he was a child prodigy and pandered to his every whim , so that he grew into a spoilt brat .
as a young teenager , he hung around with the rest of the towns disaffected youth , and was on the verge of becoming a juvenile delinquent .
but then a music teacher realised he had a talent for singing and helped him to see the error of his ways .
he spent the rest of his teenage years singing for a group which made a considerable contribution to popular youth culture .
contents of a celebrity magazine .
an exclusive interview with paola simone .
paola let us in on the secrets of her fairytale wedding and lavish lifestyle she now leads .
sources close to joey reveal the truth about the rock stars drug problem .
who will buy it ?
tennis ace bach handar in the second of two in depth interviews .
handar reveals some of the secrets about match fixing that kept him in the full glare of publicity for much of last year .
speech at an awards ceremony .
we are here today to celebrate the achievements of monty sharpe , are markable firm director .
montys first full length feature film , lincolns boyhood , about life of abraham lincoln , was highly praised by the critics and received for a number of prestigious awards .
montys film making goes back a long way .
he made several short film at university which received rare review in the student press .
after university he soon realised his ambition of working in cinema when he got his first at sheepton studios .
monty soon began directing and enjoyed a meteoric rise to fame .
critics have heaped praise on all his work , highlighting his unique approach to film .
it is my great honor today to be presenting this award to him .
the directors bowl is the highest accolade which can be offered to anyone in his profession .
we offer monty this award not only because of his own achievements but also because his work has had a significant impact on all of our leading young directors and will do so for many years to come .
let me share with you some of the glowing tributes which we have received from other directors .
students these days are not what they used to be half of them are bone idle and the others have an attitude problem .
they seem to let anyone in to university these days i have one very slippery customer in one of my classes .
hes more interested in mindless violence than books and is ready to pick a fight at any opportunity .
lecturers these days say that students have no respect for authority but they seem to hold us in contempt .
i always seem to take the flak if theres a problem in class , as they have decided that i am a disruptive influence who poisons the atmosphere for other students .
but , as i see it , if a class is a disaster , the blame rests fairly and squarely with the lecturer .
they should not be allowed to shirk their responsibilities to us students .
these collocations are quite forceful , but can also be used humorously a rising intonation combined with a smile will soften them .
i am appalled that you would stoop to that level !
do something as bad as that .
that was a really dirty trick to play !
nasty dishonest thing to do .
i think ron is a nasty piece of work !
an unpleasant , untrustworthy person .
your behavior was totally out of order .
it was a downright disgrace to behave like that !
absolutely disgraceful .
i would not trust eva an inch !
would not trust at all .
other collocations relating to criticising people .
i will never tell you a secret again you have totally betrayed my trust .
he did really well , given that he is only a child its not fair to belittle his achievements .
you are letting his good looks cloud your judgement .
your essay was not bad , but i have a few minor niggles .
how did you manage to overlook such a glaring error ?
he said he was leaving me because he was sick of my constant nagging .
note that we say deep dissatisfaction , not strong dissatisfaction , for example , i am writing to express my deep dissatisfaction about .
i am happy to act as a referee for illona hradecka , who has applied to do a course in archaeology at your university .
ilona has keen interest in archaeology and although she lacks experience , she make up for this in her enthusiasm for the archaeology of the classical world .
she has an encyclopedic knowledge of ancient greece and home .
however , she has already managed to accumulate some practical experience as she worked on a dig for two weeks in greece last april , and she looking forward to honing her practical skills at the same dig over the summer holiday .
her dream of pursuing her interests in archaeology is of paramount importance to her and i am sure she has the ability to meet the challenge of the course .
its my pleasure to provide a reference for phil lee , who has applied for the post of marketing manager in your company .
i can wholeheartedly recommend mr lee for this position as i have every confidence in his ability to perform the task indicated in your job description .
he has remarkable financial acumen and excellent interpersonal skills .
he is a good team player and while working here has revealed a remarkable talent for handling difficult situations .
it goes without saying that you can trust him implicitly .
i am confident that if you were to offer him the position he would quickly become an invaluable member of your team .
film star jerry bowen .
you seem to have had such a special relationship with kara hanson over many years what is it about working with her ?
karas wonderful she just seems have boundless energy and shes always been able to boost peoples confidence , especially new young actors .
she has a wonderful , bubbly personality and shes got a dazzling smile she bears a striking resemblance to ingrid berman , one of the great cinema beauties she has some wonderful personal qualities that are so rare in stars nowadays .
ex rock star eddie stewart .
hi liz , how frustrating house hunting is !
we have just looked at a city centre flat near olivers new job the estate agents ad said it was spacious ha , ha !
how anyone could live in such a confined space , i do not know it was tiny i know you have to expect cramped conditions in the city centre but this was ridiculous .
we are short of space already where we are now , what with the new baby and everything kids take up a lot of space , do not they ?
dear emma , sorry to hear of your problems yes , kids do seem to take up a lot of room but listen , a friend of ours is selling her house in town and moving to australia its not huge , but theres ample room for a family with two children theres even a garden , and though its not a vast expense , its very pleasant .
theres a shed on it at the moment , which is a bit of a waste of space but that could be removed to leave room for a play area theres no garage , but its on a quiet street and there are always plenty of vacant parking spaces let me know if you are interested and i will have a word with her best , liz .
here are some brief extract from novels , where peoples voice are being described .
lennox noticed a trace of a foreign accent in the mans voice .
it was a booming voice , one he had heard before , many years ago .
lucys voice faltered as she told her sad story .
when we need to work out the easiest way to do something , you have to explore different ways of approaching the task .
sometimes there will be many feasible alternatives to consider and sometimes there will only be one or two viable options .
you need to enlist the help of people to give you advice before you decide on which method to adopt .
break the task down into stages , so that you are dealing with small manageable chunks .
this way you will soon find that something you thought was hard is in fact simplicity itself .
but be careful , do not always take what looks like the easy option .
at the end , you can feel proud that you did not just take the easy way out .
ways of remembering .
a trained memory is an immense asset , particularly in public life .
mnemonics are systems for dealing with the complexities of learning and remembering , and people who use them can recall things with an amazing degree of accuracy .
the ancient greeks perfected a number of mnemonic techniques , some of which are still used today , for example , using the first letter of each item to form a word that will help you remember the whole list of items .
for instance , you might remember the female first name , ada , to help you recall the phrase amazing degree of accuracy .
or you might think of the word bag , which will give you three colours that collocate with hair blond , auburn , ginger .
a simple rule of all memory training systems is the idea of initial awareness .
this works in a straightforward way .
the basic principle is that the system helps you concentrate the mind on whatever you are trying to remember for just long enough to force initial awareness .
this may sound like hard work at first , but in fact all memory training systems are perfectly simple .
once you have taken the time to learn them , you will be able to instantly recall any new items of information you want to , with remarkable ease .
life seems to have been a constant struggle for her ever since she left home .
when the electricity went off everyone was rushing about in a state of confusion .
losing the job she loved so much was a severe blow for anna she took it very badly .
our plane was cancelled because of adverse weather conditions .
unfortunately , after the widespread flooding came widespread looting of the properties that had been abandoned meanwhile , many families remained in grave danger as the flood waters showed little sign of abating .
if you continue to smoke there is a high risk of your developing a number of serious diseases .
jasmines birthday party was a complete disaster she decided to invite all of her own and her sisters ex boyfriends with catastrophic results .
verb noun and collocations .
my grandmother faced many problems in her life .
how do you think we should address the traffic problems in our city ?
more must be done to tackle the aids problem .
nuclear weapons pose a threat to the whole world .
most things that we do in life carry some degree of risk .
not smoking minimises the risk of getting a whole range of illnesses .
rob relishes the challenges of a new project .
our party believes that this countrys complex tax laws mainly serve to hinder progress .
terry spotted an error in the email he was about to send .
any new business is bound to encounter some initial difficulties .
as she was born blind she has had to overcome many extra hurdles in her life .
poor people in this drought ridden country fight for survival .
the international community responded rapidly to the emergency .
disaster struck the province last june , when torrential rains cause mudslides in many areas .
remember that we make mistakes not do mistakes .
we usually have problems or experience problems , just as we usually also have experience difficulties not get problems difficulties .
we attempt to find a solution not give a solution .
problems arise or occur not happen and difficulties arise , not appear .
the accident brought traffic to a halt for several hours .
often used about discussions .
they terminated his contract since he failed to meet his sales targets .
the government may abandon their policy on id cards .
police called off the search as darkness fell .
the police have closed off the street while repairs are being carried out there .
wait until there is a lull in the conversation , then we can leave .
starting .
as dawn broke we set off up the mountain .
jasmine suddenly broke into song .
william broke into a run when he saw the bus leaving .
the rain set in for the day .
the smoke set off the fire alarm .
customs have instigated measures to deal with illegal immigration .
the chairperson made some opening remarks , others then entered into the discussion .
news headlines .
violence sparks fears of further unrest .
peace process talks collapse .
stadium finally nears completion .
star dispels rumours of divorce .
singer clears up confusion about lyrics .
minister allay fears of tax increase army quells unrest on border .
new republic breaks diplomatic relations with neighbours .
a storm can cause damage , a mechanical defect can cause a problem , unclear instructions can cause confusion , a political scandal can cause an uproar a strong negative reaction manifestation from the public , a high risk sport can cause injury , and an infection in a hospital can cause death .
you can describe something as cause for concern or cause for alarm meaning a reason for concern or alarm .
for example , the growing number of teenagers dropping out of school is cause for concern .
the rapid spread of the virus is cause for alarm .
the opening of the new school was cause for celebration in the community .
comparing two places .
emily has been offered two different jobs .
the jobs are fundamentally similar but they are in different towns alton and belville .
the two towns bear very little resemblance to each other .
alton is a small town by the sea .
belville is entirely different as it is a large industrial town .
mike has been making a determined effort to save money .
we made a concerted effort to meet all our deadlines this week .
i could not have done it on my own it was truly a joint effort .
the manager congratulated the sales force on their magnificent team effort .
meena has made a valiant effort to keep up with work despite her illness .
strenuous efforts were made to prevent the story from reaching the papers .
although kerry did not succeed in breaking the record , he gave it his best shot .
they made several abortive attempts to climb the mountain .
i am exhausted i am not used to so much physical exertion !
it was a hard slog getting my thesis finished on time but 1 made it !
it will be an uphill struggle persuading the boss to make the changes you want .
careers workshops .
our workshops offer advice to anyone who is thinking about a new career .
we can provide a solution to any careers problem .
our training is based on the premise that successful career choice requires effort .
but if you devote energy to making the right decisions , if you follow our advice and heed our warnings we guarantee you will reap the rewards of your efforts .
those who ignore our advice tend to find their career is doomed to failure .
so if you have a desperate desire to succeed , do not just pin your hopes on good luck , come to one of our workshops .
our methods have stood the test of time .
so come on , you know its got to be worth a try ?
sign up for one of our workshops and you wo not look back .
the success or failure of companies , public sector institutions and services , not for profit organizations , sports teams , and so on , often depends on the quality of their managers .
but what do managers do ?
one well known classification of the tasks of a manager comes from peter drucker .
drucker was an american business professor and consultant who is often called things like the father of modern management .
planning setting objectives , organizing , integrating motivating and communicating , measuring performance , and developing people .
first of all , senior managers and directors set objectives , and decide how their organization can achieve or accomplish them .
this involves developing strategies , plans and precise tactics , and allocating resources of people and money .
secondly , managers organize .
they analyse and classify the activities of the organization and the relations among them .
they divide the work into manageable activities and then into individual tasks .
they select people to perform these tasks .
thirdly , managers practise the social skills of motivation and communication .
they also have to communicate objectives to the people responsible for attaining them .
they have to make the people who are responsible for performing individual tasks form teams .
they make decisions about pay and promotion .
as well as organizing and supervising the work of their subordinates , they have to work with people in other areas and functions .
fourthly , managers have to measure the performance of their staff , to see whether the objectives or targets set for the organization as a whole and for each individual member of it are being achieved .
lastly , managers develop people both their subordinates and themselves .
a companys top managers also have to consider the future , and modify or change the organizations objectives when necessary , and introduce the innovations that will allow the business to continue .
top managers also have to manage a businesss relations with customers , suppliers , distributors , bankers , investors , neighbouring communities , public authorities , and so on , as well as deal with any crisis that arises .
although the tasks of a manager can be analysed and classified in this fashion , management is not entirely scientific .
there are management skills that have to be learnt , but management is also a human skill .
some people are good at it , and others are not .
some people will be unable to put management techniques into practice .
others will have lots of technique , but few good ideas .
excellent managers are quite rare .
in the human side of enterprise , douglas mcgregor outlined two opposing theories of work and motivation .
what he calls theory x is the rather pessimistic approach to workers and working which assumes that people are lazy and will avoid work and responsibility if they can .
consequently , workers have to be closely supervised and controlled , and told what to do .
they have to be both threatened , for example with losing their job , and rewarded with incentives , probably monetary ones such as a pay rise or bonuses .
theory x assumes that most people are incapable of taking responsibility for themselves and have to be looked after .
i would say that coming from an auditing world where the pays are typically really low , especially when compared to banking guys , one of the core things that was a driver in retaining our staff was , i would say , problems .
the more you give them challenging problems , and the more you make them excited about solving the problem , the monetary aspect just goes out of the picture , and i have seen staff who have been almost telling every day that they want to quit the firm , but have never quit the firm for the last seven years , just because they have had so many challenging problems , that they just enjoyed solving , and you ask them , why did not you move , given that you would have had such a high pay increase in another place ?
theyd say , well , the pay would be great , but i do not think i will face as many challenging puzzles or whatever problems i solved here over there .
so i think the motivation of the mind or the ultimate passion that you have is still a core driver , no matter how many hygiene factors or whatever that you learn in motivation .
managers can make the difference from this point of view .
i had a few team members in my operational team who were working in their jobs for about 40 years .
it was a detergent factory , they came in every single day for 12 hour shifts , and can you imagine working in that role for 40 years ?
i came in and people were really bored , right , and what i did is , we set up small group meetings for each of the shifts , right , and what things they were doing outside of work .
i found that there were many entrepreneurs , and also other people interested in things like driving hiv aids activities in south africa thats quite a big problem at the moment .
and i just mean outside of work .
i mean , if its reading a book , if its kicking a soccer ball , perhaps they want to organize a staff soccer team , right , perhaps they want to start a book club inside work , and i am not just talking about , and i am talking about things outside of things related to the bottom line , and i feel that those things could make people more passionate , just about coming into work , getting up in the morning and coming to their jobs .
people then wanted to be trained , and what we found is they were even willing to come in on the off shifts , and even not get paid for these types of things .
so i think the one thing you need to learn about motivation is how do you ensure that you mobilize people by finding out what they really enjoy doing and you need to be extremely creative about these things .
and i think it relates in some ways very much to jobs that secretaries do .
people think that they are ok with just sitting behind a desk , and organizing your inbox , and sending out meeting requests .
they are not , so i think its really up to these managers and leaders to become creative , understand their people , and really think about things and i do not want to use this word outside of the box , to try and motivate their staff .
what i noticed in i worked in both in switzerland and in malaysia and the context of a manager is very different in these two countries .
in singapore the emphasis on hierarchy and the superiority of the manager is very important .
no matter you put a group in a team , once the manager says something its kind of accepted by everyone else , no one challenges it , whereas in switzerland and uk what you observe is once the manager says something , people can challenge him .
so manager in the western context is more a guider , who encourages people by his persuasion , either his vocal talent or his technical attitude astute , whereas in the asian region i still feel that the emphasis on superiority , power , is still very prevalent , so the manager has to have the commanding power .
i mean i think here diversity in , say , management schools plays a very important role , because take for example judge business school , we have people from forty six different nationalities , so you are working with these group of people at various points through your programme , and it kind of like gives that diverse experience to you , to be able to like work with cross , people from cross cultural backgrounds .
so i think management education does help a lot , and your ability to be , work with like , cross cultural people .
i think the difference nowadays is also the fact that theres a lot more awareness about these issues .
the fact that there are so many business schools , so many courses running with regards to culture , the differences in aspects regarding the us versus china , and so forth , people are just more aware .
and i think with this , an american now going into china , has a completely different attitude , or at least i hope so !
that people are now more aware of these situations and sort of aspects of emotional intelligence allow people to use those self awareness aspects , to be able to be a bit more effective in their management styles .
i read somewhere that now there are a lot of international corporations that are giving up their passport .
this was an article , i mean , about a more general context , but its true that companies like ibm , or general electric , that are moving a lot of executives , and even middle management across the countries , contribute to create a mutual understanding of different cultures and to smooth in a waya , to round the corners , i think .
theres a saying that says when in rome , do as the romans do .
i went on a japanese course where it said , when in rome , learn what the romans do , so you can become a better japanese .
so i think that in a way sums it up perfectly , in that culture will never disappear , right , but i think in a way we are just going to become a lot more profound in what we do , and learn a lot more what everybody else in the rest of the world is doing .
managing a global multinational company would obviously be much simpler if it required only one set of corporate objectives , goals , policies , practices , products and services .
but local differences cultural habits , beliefs and principles specific to each country or market often make this impossible .
the conflict between globalization and localization has led to the invention of the word glocalization .
companies that want to be successful in foreign markets have to be aware of the local cultural characteristics that affect the way business is done .
richard lewis has classified different cultures according to three poles are presenting different types of behaviour .
several decades ago , there were sales driven companies .
these organizations focused their energies on changing customers minds to fit the product practicing the any color as long as its black school of marketing .
as technology developed and competition increased , some companies shifted their approach and became customer driven .
these companies expressed a new willingness to change their product to fit customers are quests practicing the tell us what color you want school of marketing .
successful companies are becoming market driven , adapting their products to fit their customers strategies .
the most effective thing we have found is publicity in the papers , and in general free publicity , so my partner spends a lot of time contacting the journals , papers like the , the free ones in the morning , and trying to get free articles when we have a new product or something hip , or something changes .
they are often keen to have new things , or new bits of information .
that then hits the target straight away that day and people tend to take the effect is immediate .
those articles do not have an effect a week later in general , but it has the effect that day or the next day and the idea is behind this for us is that we then convince that person by the product and the taste of the product , and that they will come back because of that .
after the launching of zeste in lausanne , in the beginning , as i said , it was quite difficult , we looked at different ways of attracting customers , we looked into different forms of marketing .
the first , the first tactic on lausanne was just sampling , we did sampling on the street , we , i sent out one of my staff members with little sample goblets , and people , little cups , and people then got to try our product , and i knew that if they tried our product theyd be happy our product sells itself as far as taste .
that was quite successful , but at the time we launched in october , so we were going into winter , again as i said before , the foot traffic was less , so then we decided what we were going to do was some sort of advertising campaign , something visual to get , to touch the people that , that hopefully they would come .
this unfortunately was a very expensive experience .
we went through a design agency , we designed posters to go into the buses , because the bus actually passed directly in front of our store .
we saw the people in the bus , they did not know who we were , what we did , and we , i felt we needed to touch these people .
so we did a two week campaign , which was rather expensive , to pay the time in the bus , also the production of the design of the , the flyer , and also the printing of the flyers .
we went with the concept of having a fit woman with boxing gloves , with the theme of get a , get a kick out of your vitamins and come to zeste .
unfortunately , what we realized was not on the pamphlet was enough information about the product , because the swiss did not know at that stage what a smoothie was .
for them , this word did not exist , so it was not a very effective campaign .
here in new york , the dow jones is down 5886 points at 712322 , a drop of 082 percent , and thes p 500 has drifted a little more to 74255 , thats down 037 percent .
but the nasdaq composite is slightly firmer at 139704 , thats up 04 percent .
things were not much better in europe today , with the dax in frankfurt tumbling 261 percent , and the cac 40 in paris continuing its slide , finishing 183 percent lower .
in london the footsie 100 kissed goodbye to 25 percent .
it was not all doom and gloom in asia though , with the nikkei 225 in tokyo climbing to 756842 , thats a gain of 148 percent .
though the united states has not adopted central economic planning , we have gone very far in the past 50 years in expanding the role of government in the economy .
that intervention has been costly in economic terms .
the limitations imposed on our economic freedom threaten to bring two centuries of economic progress to an end .
intervention has also been costly in political terms .
it has greatly limited our human freedom .
how much to spend on ourselves and on what items .
how much to save and in what form .
how much to give away and to whom .
currently , more than 40 percent of our income is disposed of on our behalf by government at federal , state and local levels combined .
as consumers , we are not even free to choose how to spend that part of our income that is left after taxes .
our physician is not free to prescribe many drugs for us that he may regard as the most effective for our ailments , even though the drugs may be widely available abroad .
we are not free to buy an automobile without seat belts .
another essential part of economic freedom is freedom to use the resources we possess in accordance with our own values freedom to enter any occupation , engage in any business enterprise , buy from or sell to anyone else , so long as we do so on a strictly voluntary basis and do not resort to force in order to coerce others .
today you are not free to offer your services as a lawyer , a physician , a dentist , a plumber , a barber , a mortician , or engage in a host of other occupations , without first getting a permit or licence from a government official .
you are not free to work overtime at terms mutually agreeable to you and your employer , unless the terms conform to rules and regulations laid down by a government official .
you are not free to set up a bank , go into the taxicab business , or the business of selling electricity or telephone service , or running a railroad , busline , or airline , without first receiving permission from a government official .
although these examples only scratch the surface , they illustrate the fundamental proposition that freedom is one whole , that anything that reduces freedom in one part of our lives is likely to affect freedom in the other parts .
freedom can not be absolute .
we do live in an interdependent society .
some restrictions on our freedom are necessary to avoid other , still worse , restrictions .
however , we have gone far beyond that point .
the urgent need today is to eliminate restrictions , not add to them .
the korean economist ha joon chang is the author of several books including bad samaritans guilty secrets of rich nations and the threat to global prosperity .
here is part of an interview about this book read it and answer the questions below .
to explain this idea in the book i use the example of my young son .
this little guy is perfectly capable of making a living .
hes already eight now , but when i wrote the book he was six .
millions of children work in developing countries from the age of four or five , as did millions of children in rich countries in the 19th and early 20th century .
maybe i should send my son to the labour market and make him get a job .
if he can earn his own living , thats a lot of money saved for me .
but more importantly , this will expose him to competition and make him a very productive person .
well , of course i do not do this .
he is quite a clever kid and maybe if i support him for another 12 or 15 years , he could become a software engineer or brain surgeon or nuclear physicist .
of course , theres a danger that he might turn out to be a total waste of time , but thats a risk i am willing to take .
i know for sure that if i kick him into the labour market now , he will become a shoeshine boy , and will maybe grow up to be a street hawker , but he will never be a brain surgeon or a nuclear physicist .
when you are trying to get into a more difficult and thereby higher return activity , developing countries have to invest in it .
the investment comes in the form of protection , which makes , for the moment , your local consumer use expensive and inferior domestic products .
but unless you do that , these industries are not going to grow , you accept that you will use inferior products from inefficient producers for the time being .
in the meantime , you do certain things to make sure that these firms grow up , ie they increase their productivity and eventually give you cheaper domestic goods , create jobs and stimulate other activities .
in the end , you are better off that way .
so , inefficiency is part of the deal .
only you are deliberately creating these inefficiencies with the view of becoming even more efficient than otherwise possible .
hi there !
see you soon !
happy birthday !
at the moment , in a hurry , from time to time .
its a small world !
do not put all your eggs in one basket to be or not to be that is the question .
blonde hair , deeply disappointed .
idioms are fixed combinations of words whose meaning is often difficult to guess from the meaning of each individual word .
for example , if i say i put my foot in it the other day at lindas house i asked her if she was going to marry simon , what does it mean ?
if you do not know that put your foot in it means say something accidentally which upsets or embarrasses someone , it is difficult to know exactly what the sentence means it has a non literal or idiomatic meaning .
tim took a shine to immediately liked his teacher .
the bands number one hit was just a flash in the pan .
little jimmy has been as quiet as a mouse extremely quiet all day .
we arrived safe and sound safely .
mark and alistair do not see eye to eye .
how can i use idioms ?
many idioms are quite informal , so use them carefully .
you will need to be able to understand a lot of idioms if you want to read english fiction , newspapers or magazines , or understand tv shows , films and songs .
people also often use idioms for humour or to comment on themselves , other people and situations .
you will sound more natural and fluent if you can use idioms in everyday conversation or informal writing be careful not to use too many , though !
i idioms and change .
idioms frequently change in english .
although many idioms last for a long time , some disappear very quickly .
therefore , some idioms that were popular 50 years ago may sound very old fashioned and odd today .
for example , the idiom as stiff straight as a ramrod sitting or standing with a very straight and stiff back is not frequently used nowadays .
at advanced level , your aim will be not only to understand idioms , but also to use them accurately and appropriately this book will help you achieve these aims there are other resources which you should use too .
to help you study idioms , you need a good learners dictionary , ideally one which focuses on idioms .
the best learners dictionaries are corpus based , ie they focus on idioms that people actually use and give authentic examples of their use .
english idioms in use advanced is based on the cambridge international corpus , which is a collection of over one billion words of real spoken and written english .
like it or lump it informal if you tell someone to like it or lump it , you mean they must accept a situation they do not like , because they can not change it the fact remains , thats all we are going to pay him and he can like it or lump it like it or lump it , romantic fiction is read regularly by thousands .
you can use the internet to find out more about the meanings and origins of idioms , and to see more examples of their use .
wwwphrasesorguk lists the meanings and origins of many idioms , and the site provides examples of how the idioms are used there is also a link to a phrase finder facebook page , where you can ask questions about the meaning and origin of idioms .
use a search engine such as google to find further examples of idioms in use you could specify the context in which you want to find examples , for example by typing like it or lump it news , to find examples of the idiom used in newspaper headlines or articles .
vocabulary notebooks .
always make good , detailed notes about idioms in your vocabulary notebook include an example of the idiom in context , as well as its meaning .
add any notes about its usage , eg informal or literary doing a quick drawing of an idiom may help you to learn it .
metaphors describe a person , object or situation by comparing it to something else with similar characteristics .
they are often used in poetry and literature .
in shakespeares romeo and juliet , for example , romeo says juliet is my sun , suggesting that she is the most important force in his life , bringing him light and warmth .
many idioms are based on metaphors .
however , idioms are expressions that are used so frequently and are so fixed in the language that people often do not think about the metaphors behind them .
the metaphors used in idioms are therefore much less original and thought provoking than those used in literary contexts .
people say , for example , the new president was took centre stage at the meeting was the most important or noticeable thing or person , without thinking of the original image of a theatre .
work war .
the language of idioms seems to suggest that english speakers see work and business life as a kind of war , with many work and business idioms based on images connected with war and fighting .
for example , companies launch marketing campaigns , and they may join forces with one another .
business people might say that a situation is a minefield is potentially dangerous or that a company is a casualty of a difficult economic situation was badly affected by it .
a manager may pull rank on his employees use the power his position gives him to make them do something , and he may have to get take the flak for a problem receive strong criticism .
an employee may be given or get his marching orders lose his job see unit 15 for more idioms based on war and conflict .
understanding seeing .
idioms often equate seeing with understanding .
for example , we talk about seeing sense or seeing reason becoming sensible reasonable or seeing the point understanding the importance of something .
similarly , if someone sees the joke , they understand it .
to see the light can mean to suddenly understand something .
some other metaphors .
emotion colour .
red can suggest anger , eg .
my brother saw red when i broke his phone .
if you get a black mark for something , it means people think you have done something bad , and they will remember it in future .
life a journey .
if someone is at a crossroads , they are at a stage in life when they have to make an important decision .
if you say that you are going getting nowhere , you mean you are making no progress .
if you say something is taking you into uncharted territory waters , you mean it is taking you into unknown areas of experience .
life a gamble .
if you have something up your sleeve , you have a secret plan or idea someone playing cards for money may hide a card up their sleeve .
if you bluff your way into or out of a situation , you get yourself there by deception in the same way that a gambler may bluff pretend to be in a weaker or stronger position than is really the case .
noticing the metaphors underlying many idioms will help you understand and learn them .
look out for other common concepts such as time money .
getting the keywords right .
you say that rising unemployment figures are just the tip of the iceberg , not the top of the iceberg .
you say that the state is responsible for its citizens welfare from the cradle to the grave , not from the cradle to the coffin .
if you want to talk about people that you do not know or that you do not think are important , you can say every tom , dick and or harry could do that job , not every tom and jerry !
if you pay for something yourself , you pay for it out of your own pocket , not out of your own wallet .
people often play with idioms for humorous effect or to make something more memorable .
this wordplay is particularly common in journalism and advertising .
see unit 40 for more examples of idioms used in advertising .
memorable names for businesses .
here are some catchy names of hairdressers salons .
in this book we focus mainly on idioms which are widely understood throughout the english speaking world .
however , there are many other idioms which are typical of specific english speaking countries , such as the us , scotland , australia and south africa .
there is not space in this book to include idioms from all these different countries , but a few idioms from the us are included here for interest .
idioms from the us .
many us idioms originate from baseball .
new idioms evolve all the time from tv , advertising , politics and business .
these idioms often quickly become expressions understood and used by many people in their everyday lives .
some of these idioms will be popular for a few years but then get forgotten .
others may last .
in this unit , we look at some examples of common , but relatively new , idioms .
some modern idioms .
what are similes ?
similes are expressions which compare two things .
they always include the words as or like .
you can use similes to make your spoken and written english more colourful and your comparisons more powerful .
my brothers as thin as a rake , extremely thin .
what are binomials ?
binomials are a type of idiom in which two words are joined by a conjunction linking word , usually and .
the order of the two words is fixed .
managing climate change is not a black and white issue .
the words can be .
saras work is always very neat and tidy .
if you go for cheaper speakers , the sound quality may be a bit hit and miss .
they finished the race neck and neck , equal .
tables in the canteen take a lot of wear and tear , damage through everyday use .
after the match , the players legs were black and blue , very bruised .
the traffic was bumper to bumper all the way to the coast , very heavy .
little by little , vera gained the horses confidence , gradually .
the house must be worth a quarter of a million , give or take a few thousand , plus or minus informal .
trinomials are a similar type of idiom , in which three words are joined , eg i have looked here , there and everywhere for my glasses but can not find them everywhere .
other examples .
heads or tails ?
we are at sixes and sevens at work this week .
hannah had flu last week , but shes out and about again now .
although the twins look the same , when you talk to them you realise they are like chalk and cheese .
its great to leave the hustle and bustle of the city at the weekend .
i can not do up these tiny buttons i am all fingers and thumbs today .
the money for the charity appeal came in in dribs and drabs , but we reached our target in the end .
it took a lot of blood , sweat and tears to get the business going .
i have asked you time after time not to do that .
her interest in painting waxed and waned over the years .
she really does not enjoy living in the countryside shes a city person , through and through .
we had a great holiday and explored every nook and cranny of the island .
proverbs are short sentences which refer to something most people have experienced and which give advice or warnings .
like idioms , their form is fixed , and it is not always possible to guess the meaning from looking at the individual words .
positive situations .
in these conversations , the second speaker uses a proverb to repeat and sum up what the first speaker says .
we all want to solve this problem , and i am sure we will find a solution .
a clich is a comment that is often used in certain common , everyday situations it is a comment that most people are familiar with and is therefore not original .
clichs are often used in everyday conversation , and they are also frequently played with in advertising slogans and newspaper headlines .
there are plenty more fish in the sea there are plenty more people or possibilities often used to cheer up someone who has found one person or opportunity unsuccessful .
look on the bright side try to see something good in a bad situation this is usually followed by an explanation of what the bright side might be , eg after failing a job interview you are told that you probably would not have enjoyed the job if youd got it .
as britain is an island nation , with the sea playing a major role in the countrys history and its economy , it is not surprising that the language has developed many idioms from sailing .
talking about a business .
read this magazine article about a couple who bought a hotel .
when we took over the hotel five years ago , the business was on the rocks .
the economy was doing badly and people were giving luxury hotels like ours a wide berth .
idioms based on war .
many idioms come from the topic of war they are used to refer to actions and events that are seen as similar to battles , conflicts or struggles .
in these newspaper cuttings , the first sentence explains the idiom in the headline .
emotional call to arms inspires a generation president forgas solidarity and vote in the next election has won widespread support .
minister drops an economic bombshell the shock announcement by ms hanaria that the country is in a deep economic crisis , and that the currency must be devalued , stunned city economists today .
as transport is such an everyday experience for many people , it is unsurprisingly a rich source of idioms .
karl was full of enthusiasm when he started his university course .
he worked extremely hard at first , but , after a couple of years , he ran out of steam1 and lost interest in his studies .
he spent much more time going to parties and staying out all night than studying , and his tutor worried that he had gone off the rails2 .
the head and face .
you should face up to your problems do not just bury your head in the sand .
my dad has a good head for figures he can do complicated sums in seconds .
theres more to this news story than meets the eye .
lets put our heads together and organize a surprise birthday party for sam .
card games and board games .
youd think it was monopoly money , the amount he spent last week .
i wanted the job in paris , but i knew the dice were loaded against me because my french is not very good .
he drives so fast !
you are dicing with death if you let him drive you .
the audience sat there poker faced all through the play .
greek mythology .
i think this party has a great future , but corruption seems to be our achilles heel .
in his latest speech criticising the prime ministers actions , the finance minister has opened a pandoras box of political and legal problems .
our leader has shown that she has the midas touch when it comes to economic planning .
many common idioms actually come from the works of shakespeare 1564 1616 , the famous english poet and dramatist who wrote 38 plays , including romeo and juliet and hamlet .
here are some idioms from shakespeares plays that are used in everyday english .
modern day example .
their relationship was ruined by the green eyed monster .
by criticising the company and the teams performance , the new manager succeeded in upsetting everyone at one fell swoop .
famous literary characters .
my grandmothers attic was an aladdins cave of old paintings and other valuable objects .
all the cameras on our streets mean that big brother is watching us all the time .
when i was learning to play golf , jack was my man friday he advised me and even carried all my equipment you may also see girl or person friday .
george is a real jekyll and hyde character one minute hes happy and friendly , the next minute hes aggressive and violent .
i am single and still waiting for prince charming to appear on his white horse !
novels , plays , fairy tales and poems .
the idioms in these horoscopes all come from novels , plays , fairy tales and poems .
horoscopes .
it may become an albatross around your neck .
taurus you meet someone this week who you think will play an important role in your life but be prepared to say goodbye .
you may be like ships that pass in the night .
gemini you sometimes feel that your hopes and ambitions are just castles in the air but hold on to your dreams .
one of them will soon come true .
cancer you find yourself in a catch 22 situation with someone very close to you one of you needs to be mature and act first , but who will it be ?
sell your house , leave town and travel the world ?
virgo spending all your time studying has put you in an ivory tower try to live life more in the real world , not just with your books .
it will just be a storm in a teacup .
scorpio you do not like offending people , but sometimes you have to call a spade a spade do not be afraid to say something that may hurt someone .
science and technology idioms in positive contexts .
some science and technology based idioms are used to evaluate things in a positive way read these magazine reviews and note the idioms .
the soundboom 88 software suite is at the cutting edge of audio technology , providing a complete home studio .
hot off the press , this online survey of consumer preferences is essential for anyone setting up a small business .
this new web search engine is the brainchild of alex wells , who originally developed worldseek software .
idioms from film and theatre reviews .
the show had the audience rolling in the aisles .
the finale brought the house down .
helena good stole the show with a fantastic performance .
the plot will keep you on the edge of your seat .
his dramatic performance sent shivers down my spine .
talking about books .
i read that novel that laura recommendedi eventually managed to wade through all 400 pages , but i did not like it very much it was really heavy going its not what i would call a page turner !
yeah the critics in the sunday papers certainly did a hatchet job on it .
well , its pretty easy to pick holes in the plot i did not think it was at all convincing .
mind you , i could never write a short story , let alone a novel .
yes , its much easier to be an armchair critic , is not it ?
an actors career .
portia cole had always dreamt of having her name in lights .
at school she was a leading light of the drama club , and she spent all her free time treading the boards .
portias tendency to play to the gallery meant she was quickly noticed when she started acting professionally .
when she got the opportunity to take over the leading role in a popular new crowd puller in a major london theatre , she was waiting in the wings , ready and eager to take centre stage .
she was surprised to feel very nervous before her opening night however , all her friends and relatives assured her that it would be all right on the night , and it was !
the audience and the critics loved her , and her career was well and truly launched .
family relationships .
alice and sara are talking about their families .
the idioms they use are fairly informal .
how quickly time passes !
it seems like only yesterday that my son jason was a twinkle in his fathers eye , and now suddenly hes 18 and about to fly the nest .
positive characteristics and behaviour .
in this conversation , lucy uses an idiom to repeat and sum up what beth says .
i am trying to organise a quiz team who do you think i should ask ?
why not ask nathan ?
he knows a lot about all sorts of different things .
you are right hes a mine of information .
carlos and ayse are talking about a crime at work read the conversation and note the idioms all the idioms they use are informal .
id never have dreamt ben was on the fiddle , would you ?
no i knew money was going missing , but i never thought it would be an inside job ben seemed so honest , yet he had his hand in the till all the time .
he pulled the wool over everyones eyes .
i cannot believe he was taking us all for a ride he was so strict with us , and yet he was lining his own pockets the whole time !
people in society .
the table below shows some idioms used to describe people in relation to their roles in society .
he was born into a poor family but became one of americas richest men .
a lot of people find his books boring and pretentious , but hes really popular among the chattering classes .
pensioners often feel they are treated as second class citizens by younger people .
you should not just snack try to have at least one square meal every day a proper meal with all the types of food your body needs .
the meat is delicious its done to a turn perfectly cooked .
he has no table manners he eats like a pig eats very greedily and unpleasantly disapproving .
shes quite thin , even though she eats like a horse eat a lot .
my grandmothers tiny , and she eats like a bird eat a little .
people who are rude to waiters make my blood boil !
people who talk loudly on their mobiles on the train make me see red !
people who drive too closely behind me make me all hot and bothered !
phone calls from people trying to sell me things i do not want really get my goat !
problems with situations .
how are things at work these days , nadia ?
its a nightmare i took my eye off the ball when i was trying to negotiate an important deal and managed to lose quite a bit of money .
can not you sweep it under the carpet ?
well , i did wonder about that , but decided id just have to own up to making a pigs ear of it .
was your boss angry ?
he said i was losing my touch it was quite a slap in the face because i have brought in lots of good business until now .
so are you thinking of looking for another job ?
that was my first reaction , but i have thought about it again in the cold light of day , and i think it might be better to stay there for a bit and try to make up for it .
well , i am sure you will be able to do that without any problems .
i certainly hope so id hate to feel id really lost the plot .
problems with people .
dear zena , i work in the same office as my sister .
we get on well , but she is very jealous of me .
i have now been offered a promotion , which would mean earning a much higher salary than her .
if i accept it , it will really put her nose out of joint .
however , i am in over my head with debt just now , and if i do not accept the job i will be in a tight corner financially .
i can not see the wood for the trees at the moment , so please help me .
what do you think i should do ?
dear zena , i am getting married next month , but its all going wrong !
the venue where we wanted to get married has cancelled our booking .
this has really pulled the rug from under our feet , as its too late to find somewhere else .
my fiances brother is also refusing to come .
i think hes trying to settle a score after a big argument they had last year , but its very upsetting .
and now my dress is too small !
this is just the latest thing in a chapter of accidents .
is this a sign that our marriage wo not work ?
should i just cancel the wedding ?
i am having difficulty working with ronan at the moment the venue for the training course has become a real bone of contention between us .
i know what you mean hes always got a bone to pick with people .
even when we have all agreed something , he will decide he wants to argue the toss its really frustrating .
yes , exactly ! at the last meeting we had discussed the venue and all agreed on the grand , so i booked it .
there are many expressions in english which are frequently used in journalism but are rarely used in other contexts .
this kind of idiomatic language is sometimes called journalese .
newspaper articles about politics .
marathon talks come to an end .
several weeks of lengthy talks are coming to an end , and planners are now almost certain to be given the go ahead to build a new housing estate on what is now north park .
pm fighting for his political life .
the prime minister is facing increasing problems today , amid mounting calls for his resignation many say he has blood on his hands after the number of civilian deaths in the recent war .
eleventh hour agreement reached .
management and unions have at last managed to hammer out a possible agreement on wages if , and its a big if , the final contract is not signed today , workers plan to strike next week .
a newspaper article about war .
vorinland attacked .
the war torn country of vorinland has been further plunged into chaos by a series of cross border raids from the sornak republic , which took place under cover of darkness last night .
a number of bloody confrontations have resulted in warehouses near the border being engulfed in flames .
the situation has brought an end to the uneasy peace which the two countries had been experiencing for the last few weeks .
the immediate motive for the raids is as yet shrouded in mystery , but one theory is that it was a last ditch attempt to sabotage the peace negotiations currently underway .
the international community has appealed for calm .
language help .
to find more examples of journalese , type journalese into a search engine , eg google .
you should find both idioms and other language characteristic of modern journalism .
idioms to convince people life can be better .
advertisements often claim that products will improve your life or give you special and exciting experiences , and so they use idioms connected with that theme .
the cruise ship ocean comet offers luxury beyond your wildest dreams .
holiday in style with our exclusive 21 day winter cruises .
go on , do yourself the world of good and book now at .
accurate and fluent formal writing is important in advanced level exams .
this unit presents some expressions to help you organise your arguments and ideas in an essay .
structuring an argument .
first and foremost , it must be emphasised that there are several reasons for this change .
on balance by and large in the main , the general public seems to be in favour of the proposal .
the office party .
the office party was embarrassing , to say the least it all went wrong from the word go , when i could not find the venue and was two hours late .
id been at the company for only a week and did not really know anybody there , so there was a lot at stake in terms of getting to know my new colleagues and making a good first impression .
i started talking to someone who was , to put it mildly , one of the most boring people i have ever met , so i escaped quickly and started talking to alice , who sit next to at work .
i was complaining about the man id been talking to and noticed she had gone very quiet .
short response .
in these conversations , the second speaker uses an idiom to react to what the first speaker says .
whats joe doing these days ?
you may well ask !
when someone asks you about something which you think is strange , funny or annoying humorous .
do you think rosie will come and help us tomorrow morning ?
maria does not approve of letting children eat sweets and chocolate , and her husband is of the same mind of like mind , has the same opinion .
the four people are all agreeing in an informal way with the woman in the centre .
we are overworked and underpaid !
you are not wrong !
tell me about it !
look at these newspaper headlines about sport and business success the meaning of the idiom in the headline is explained in the story that follows .
jackson wins his spurs jacksons performance last night proved that he deserves his place in the team he is clearly a very talented young player .
plc is riding high in popularity poll plc is one of the most popular businesses to work for this year , according to the results of major survey .
blake comes up trumps the young player did far better than anyone would have expected in last nights match , scoring three goals to win the game for city .
i went out with my brother and his girlfriend .
they did not really want me there , and it was really boring playing gooseberry being an unwanted third person in a romantic situation .
if you really like him , do not make it too obvious try to play it cool behave in a calm way , pretending to be less interested in someone than you really are .
i always take an umbrella with me , even if its not raining i like to play it safe !
be extra careful and not take any risks .
i run a restaurant another restaurant in town plays dirty , saying there are rats in our kitchen , and so on behaves dishonestly .
people in pairs .
you ve got problems ?
hes got answers .
my friend wo not text , phone or see me now that i have a boyfriend i think shes wrong to behave like this .
that makes two of us your friend needs to accept your new boyfriend and act more like an adult .
my boyfriend is chatting to girls he does not know online , and i am jealous should i chat to strangers online too so he can see how i feel ?
you look tired , ella everything is ok ?
its just our new neighbours .
they come and go each at all hours of the day and night .
i do not know how my husband manages to sleep throught it .
but thats him all over he sleeps really heavily , but i wake up each time they come in or out .
conversational expressions using no .
i will be home in next to no time .
i found no end of bargains in the sales .
itd help me no end if you did the shopping .
she was spending money like there was no tomorrow .
positive situations .
in these comments , the speakers use an idiom to repeat and sum up what they say .
he was the only candidate for the job , and he got it it was handed to him on a plate .
our team played well from the start , and we soon had the upper hand .
i know shes arrogant , but she has broken three world records you have to hand it to her !
people and personalities .
in these conversations , the second speaker uses an idiom to repeat and sum up what the first speaker says .
shes always dreamt of being a ballet dancer , has not she ?
yes , its been her hearts desire ever since she was three years old .
she sometimes seems a bit rude , but shes very kind really .
australia is the smallest continent of the world .
it was first found by a spanish monk .
his name was andres de urdaneta .
andres de urdaneta crossed the pacific ocean in 1565 .
he told everyone he believed there was a continent lying there .
this continent must be somewhere on the western tip of south america .
a few years later , the king of spain asked a ship captain to go find that continent .
he reached the new hebrides island in 1606 .
he thought he had found what he was looking for .
so he named the islands australia after the king of spain who also was archduke of austria .
in those times , spain and the netherlands were the most powerful nations in the world .
spain had colonies in south america , while the dutch occupied countries in south east asia .
when they heard about spains discoveries , they quickly sent their own ships there .
the dutch captain willem jantzsoon was the first to actually set foot in australia .
he sailed into the gulf of carpentaria on the northern part of australia in 1606 as well .
another dutchman , abel tasman , sighted the island tasmania in 1642 .
he saw it from his ship , landed there and called it van diemens land .
this was the name of the person he worked for .
tasman also found new zealand , tonga and fiji .
to reward him for his discoveries , the dutch renamed van diemens land tasmania .
in the 18th century , the british empire was facing trouble .
there were many thieves and criminals in england .
the british planned to ship them off to some faraway place .
they hoped the country would safer if they sent these criminals away .
they also thought a new colony would make the empire richer and more powerful .
the british asked captain james cook to sail in australia .
cook was very skilled navigator .
he knew how to sail ships and he was also disciplined and organized .
cook made his sailors bathe every day and eat a lot of fresh fruit to stay healthy .
in 1769 , he left for tahiti together with a botanist and two artists .
they were supposed to find new plants .
but actually their secret mission was to set up new british colonies in australia .
cook landed on the east coast of australia in april 1770 .
he named the placed botany bay after the many plants the scientist found there .
but the voyage was very eventful .
cook had to fight against a group of maori native warriors .
later , his ship ran into a coral reef and was badly damaged .
in 1779 , a storm forced him to land in hawaii .
the hawaiians hated cook because he was violent and cruel .
they used their knives and stabbed him to death .
in january 1778 , a french ship landed in australia .
but it was too late .
the british had already colonized the new continent .
the first people to wear jeans were sailors in the 16th century .
sailors were gone for a long time .
they had to do hard work outside in bad weather .
often their clothes had holes in them , got thinner or lost color .
they needed something strong against wear and tear .
most people want to make a living as nurses , teachers or computer engineers .
they work in hospitals , schools or offices because they can make more money .
they also find these jobs safer and more secure .
but not everybody can go on to become a doctor .
the job market is very competitive .
they are not many opportunities out there .
thus people are turning to more and more off job .
some of these unusual jobs include checking toys for safety or going shopping for someone else others are writing menus for a restaurant or tasting food .
tom henderson used to be a plumber for 30 years .
he retired at the age of 65 , but found life at home very boring .
he did not know how to kill time and find something to do .
finally he saw an advertisement in a newspaper .
a supermarket chain wanted to find someone for customer service .
tom went for an interview but did not think he would get the job .
he was afraid he looked too old .
but the supermarket was looking for older people because they are calmer and more authoritative when dealing with customers .
customers respect them .
tom has been working for that supermarket for 15 months now and makes 8 an hour .
his job is helping customers who reach the cashier and realize they have forgotten to buy something .
then he skates around the store and gets the item for them .
tom loves his job .
he can meet a lot of people and be helpful .
he also keeps fit .
skating makes him stay healthy .
terry cemm has been a police officer for 25 years .
after his retirement , he decided he had had enough excitement in his life .
he was looking for peace and quiet , far away from the noisy and polluted city .
terry became a beach comber .
for 17 years , he has been cleaning up the beach in front of his cottage .
every day , he walks up and down the 5 miles of the beach and looks for things that might be useful .
he mostly collects broken pieces of furniture , empty bottles or cans , and used pieces of clothing .
he then fixes or cleans the items and sells them to the local store .
of course , terry does not make a lot of money , but he has his police pension .
the money he gets from his retirement plus what he makes from selling are enough for him .
besides , cleaning up the beach makes him feel useful .
cathy moorhead is in her thirties .
she has always enjoyed flying and being out in the countryside .
she has turned this passion into a career .
for the past 12 years cathy has been taking tourists on flights in a hot air balloon .
she gets paid about 50000 a year .
cathy starts working every morning at 6 am unless it is raining .
then the balloon gets too wet and heavy , and you ca not see where you are going .
cathy flies about 10 to 20 passengers a day until sunset .
a trip usually lasts an hour and is very exciting and relaxing .
american idol premiered in the winter of 2002 .
it appeared on tv for the first time in january 2002 .
at that time there were no reality tv shows .
all tv channels showed movies or tv series .
the people from the channel abc wanted to do something different .
in part 1 which lasts roughly 3 to 4 minutes the examiner asks you a series of questions about your life and or your current situation these questions may be on a single topic eg your leisure interests or on a variety of topics eg your leisure interests , your friends and your living accommodation .
lets talk about your home country what is the climate like ?
its hot most of the time sometimes there is rain .
thank you what are the main industries ?
tell me about your countrys food and dishes .
our favourite food is meat our national dish is a lamb dish , like curry .
we tend to eat a lot of meat , although these days people are trying to eat less meat for health reasons we have a national dish which is similar to lamb curry , but made in a unique way not many people know the recipe , so eating it is always exciting for us .
where are you living at present ?
i am living with two other students in an apartment .
in part 2 which lasts roughly 3 to 4 minutes the examiner will give you a card which has a topic task for you to talk about the topic will be about something in your life , past or present there will also be some brief task instructions on the card you will have one minute to think about the topic and make some brief notes the examiner will give you a pen and paper to make these notes after your 1 minute preparation , the examiner will ask you to speak for between 1 and 2 minutes on the topic when you finish , the examiner will ask 1 or 2 short questions about what you have said .
describe a holiday or trip that you remember well .
say when and where this was .
what you did .
part 2 personal topic .
your best friend .
a time when you worked in a team .
your plans for a future career .
the education and schooling topic includes teaching methods and resources , approaches to exams and testing , school management , pupil motivation , behaviour and discipline , school sport , extra curricular activities , higher further education and course funding .
topic 2 example task .
the internet will never replace traditional course books in schools .
how far do you agree with this prediction ?
explanation of the task .
the children and families topic includes child psychology and development , ways of bringing up children , family discipline , child care , preschool learning , parental roles , family structures and roles for example nuclear or extended families , adolescence , teenagers and elderly family members .
please remember that the topics are used in different ways in the writing and speaking parts of the ielts test .
in the academic writing test task 2 , you should present ideas or opinions about society in general , but not about your personal life .
in the speaking test , the examiner will always ask you both about society in general in speaking part 3 and also about your personal life , country and background in speaking parts 1 and 2 .
with controversial topics such as families and health , some candidates become confused about this difference , but its absolutely essential to remember if you want to achieve a very high band !
the culture , art and traditions topic includes human folklore , ceremonies and rituals , myths and legends , social customs , traditional languages , dress and arts , the impact of modern life on traditional lifestyles and differences in national habits .
please remember that ielts will not ask specifically about religion , politics or spiritual beliefs , and you should not base your answers in the writing or speaking tests on your personal beliefs in these areas .
for example , if the task asks whether you agree with a certain idea , you would get a low mark if you say yes , because my religion agrees with it because my president has this policy or similar .
you can certainly use religious or political situations as evidence or examples to support an argument , but not as a starting point .
for example , we should give money to charity because it benefits society , as we can see for example in countries where religious observance requires people to do this regularly .
this is one topic especially where you need to remember not to give personal stories about yourself or people that you know in the task 2 writing !
many doctors are concerned about the high use of computer games by children and young people .
what mental and physical problems may arise from excessive use of these games ?
how could these problems be reduced ?
the global challenges topic includes economic issues , their impact on people and society , changes in demographics , movements of populations between countries and inside countries , long term trends in population and industry , severe global problems such as famine , drought and malnutrition , and also the possible causes of all these issues , their effects and possible solutions to them .
there are often connections between this topic and the other topics , especially 4 nature , the environment and energy , 8 cities and infrastructure , 9 the countryside and agriculture , and 10 government and the authorities .
this means that you may sometimes need to combine vocabulary from two or possibly three topics to answer a task .
for example , a task may ask about the effect of economic problems on the countryside , and you would then use vocabulary from topics 7 and 9 .
the cities and infrastructure topic includes the organisation of urban transport , communications and housing , trends in city life , social problems associated with cities such as overcrowding and petty crime , the growth of cities , possible future developments in city living , and comparisons of urban and rural lifestyles .
this topic is often used for task 2 ideas problem solution and ideas cause effect type essays there is also sometimes a connection to topic 9 countryside and agriculture , so you may need to combine vocabulary from the two topics .
topic 8 example task .
transport delays and long journey times are a widespread phenomenon in many cities today what are the causes of this problem , and how could the situation be improved ?
it may seem surprising , but agriculture is actually one of the most common topics in ielts across the writing , reading , speaking and listening tests .
this means that you should definitely learn to use agriculture vocabulary as part of your exam preparation , even if the subject is not personally interesting for you .
topic example task it is sometimes said that the countryside offers a high quality of life , especially for families what are the arguments for and against families choosing to live and work in the countryside , for example as farmers ?
what is your own view about this ?
the government and the authorities topic mostly includes law and order , crime and policing , justice and punishment .
occasionally the task may refer to ways of managing public services , and relations between countries .
the tasks may ask about public policy in terms of funding eg how should prisons be run by governments or by private organisations ?
but will not ask for your political views or about actual events in specific countries .
the debate continues over whether physiological differences between men and women or cultural attitudes help men dominate in scientific and mathematical careers .
when lawrence h summers , the president of harvard , suggested recently that one factor in womens lagging progress in science and mathematics might be innate differences between the sexes , his comment elicited so many fierce reactions that he quickly apologized .
did he have a point ?
researchers say there are many discrepancies between men and women in their attitudes towards math and science , in the architecture of their brains , in the way they metabolize medications .
yet researchers warn that a difference in form does not necessarily mean a difference in function .
we ca not get anywhere denying that there are neurological and hormonal differences between males and females , because clearly there are , said virginia valian , a psychology professor .
the trouble we have as scientists is in assessing their significance to real life performance .
for example , neuroscientists have shown that womens brains are about 10 percent smaller than mens , on average , even after accounting for womens comparatively smaller body size .
but throughout history , people have cited such anatomical distinctions to support hypotheses that merely reflect the prejudices of the time .
a century ago the french scientist gustay le bon pointed to the smaller brains of women and said that explained the fickleness , inconstancy , absence of thought and logic , and incapacity to reason in women .
overall size aside , some evidence suggests that female brains are relatively more endowed with the prized neurons , the grey matter , thought to do the bulk of the brains thinking while mens brains have more white matter , the tissue between neurons .
and they use the grey and white matter in different proportions when solving problems .
what such discrepancies may or may not mean is anyones conjecture .
it is cognition that counts , not the physical matter that does the cognition , argued nancy kanwisher , a professor of neuroscience at the massachusetts institute of technology .
when they do study cognitive prowess , many researchers have been impressed with how similarly young boys and girls , ranging from 5 months through 7 years , master new tasks .
we adults may think very different things about boys and girls , and treat them accordingly , but when we measure their capacities , they are remarkably alike , said elizabet spelke , a professor of psychology at harvard .
in adolescence , though , some differences in aptitude begin to emerge , especially when it comes to performance on standardized tests .
while average verbal scores are very similar , boys have outscored girls on math for the past three decades or so .
nor is the masculine edge in math unique to the united states .
in an international standardized test administered in 2003 by the international research group organization for economic cooperation and development oecd to 250000 15 year olds in 41 countries , boys did moderately better on the math portion in just half the nations .
for nearly all the other countries , there were no significant differences found between the sexes .
but average scores varied wildly from place to place and from one subcategory of math to the next .
japanese girls , for example , were on par with japanese boys on every math section save that of uncertainty which measures probabilistic skills , and japanese girls scored higher overall than did the boys of many other nations , including the united states .
in iceland , girls did better than icelandic boys by a significant margin on all parts of the test , as they habitually do on their national maths exams .
interestingly , in iceland and everywhere else , girls participating in the survey expressed more negative attitudes toward math .
as a result of these findings , many researchers are convinced that neither sex has a monopoly on basic math ability and that culture rather than chromosomes explains any gap in math scores .
according to yu xie , a sociologist at the university of michigan , among asians people rarely talk about having a gift for math or anything else , if a student comes home with a poor grade in math , he said , the parents push the child to work harder .
he adds that there is good survey data showing that this disbelief in innate ability , along with the conviction that math ability can be improved through practice , is a tremendous cultural asset in asian society and among asian americans .
many people argue that it is unnecessary to invoke innate differences to explain the gap that persists in fields like physics , engineering , mathematics and chemistry , c megan urry a professor of physics and astronomy at yale , said there was clear evidence that societal and cultural factors still hindered women in science dr urry cited a 1983 study in which 360 people half men , half women rated mathematics papers .
on average , the men rated them higher when the author had a masculine name than when the author had a feminine name .
there was a similar , but smaller , disparity in the scores women gave .
its hard for me to get excited about small differences in biology when the evidence shows that women in science are still discriminated against every step of the way .
the debate is sure to go on .
sandra f witelson , a professor or psychiatry and behavioral neurosciences at mcmaster university in hamilton , ontario , said biology might yet be found to play some part .
people have to have an open minddrwitelson said .
the term am ass media refers to the organized means for communicating openly and at a distance to many receivers within a short space of time .
these criteria are relative since the earliest forms of mass media the printed book or pamphlet were limited to the minority of a society that happened to be literate and relatively close to the place of publication .
there has been a continuous development of technologies since the earliest forms of media rock paintings to the latest forms of new electronic media .
the expression new media has been in use since the 1960s and has had to encompass an expanding and diversifying set of communication technologies .
however , the foundations of the current communications revolution rest on two main innovations .
they smoke too much , feel under massive work pressures and do not even really like each other british children are among the unhealthiest and unhappiest in the world , according to a report published today .
the world health organisation who study of more than 150000 young people in 35 countries found that the physical and mental health of children in the uk is more like that of adolescents in former communist nations than that of their western european neighbours .
teenagers in england , in particular , but also their counterparts in scotland and wales have some of the highest rates of drinking , smoking and drug use and the lowest levels of life satisfaction , fruit consumption and feelings of physical well being .
the who survey on health behaviour in school aged children hbsc is conducted every four years and interviews 11 , 13 , 15 year olds from the united states , canada and nearly all western and eastern european countries .
it is the largest international study of adolescent attitudes and provides an intriguing and worrying snapshot into the lives of british teenagers compared with their peers across the world .
english 13 year olds are the least likely in the world to believe their peers are kind and helpful , while only russian 11 year olds and czech 15 year olds had a lower opinion of their generation than the same age groups in england less than half of all the english adolescents saw each other as kind and helpful , compared with the studys average of 60 per cent .
a third of english , scottish and welsh girls rated their health as only fair or poor , with only their peers in ukraine , lithuania and latvia feeling worse off fewer than one in five girls in spain , italy and switzerland feel the same way .
when the children were asked about quality of life , england was in the bottom half of the league , while dutch , swedish and greek young people were the happiest english children struggle with a wide range of factors which reduce their quality of life .
we counselled more than 120000 children last year and the main reason for this was bullying we think there is more that could be done to protect young people .
things like exam stress are also a big problem children need to know that exams are not the only measure of success .
while english youngsters have below average hours of homework , with only a quarter of 15 year olds spending more than three hours a day on after school assignments , they feel under great stress .
six out of ten boys and seven out of ten girls aged 15 in england say they feel pressured by schoolwork , with only lithuanian and welsh peers reporting greater stress .
campaigners said the failure to tackle public health problems affecting young people was causing a self perpetuating cycle of abuse one in five girls and one in seven boys aged 15 in england smoke every day .
we are puzzled by the governments reluctance to introduce a smoking ban in public places because it would help reduce tobacco use along young people .
it would also help to have a ban on the portrayal of smoking in films the image of a hollywood role model smoking on the big screen has a big impact on teenagers .
throughout the survey , english children rated alongside children in central europe rather than with nations such as france , germany , italy and spain one in three children from all the age groups in england watches more than four hours of television per weekday , compared with the who average of one in five .
a third of 11 year old children from this country go without breakfast on school days , while 90 per cent of their portuguese peers start every day with a morning meal only children from lithuania , latvia , estonia and finland eat less fruit than english and welsh youngsters .
more than half of teenage boys and a third of teenage girls in england admitted that they had been involved in a fight in the past 12 months double the rate of german children .
health experts said the study should help countries to develop long term policies to improve the health of young people marc danzon , the who regional director , said , looking after the health of young people if of vital importance .
we know that attitudes , behaviour and lifestyle patterns strongly influence well being and are shaped at an early age it is important to know what factors determine these life long patterns .
the us has so many different fuel types , said one expert , that it is difficult to balance out refining capacity .
furthermore , us environmental legislation means its extremely hard to get permission to build new oil refineries .
we are having to import both .
in the long term , to the worrying detriment of our balance of payments , the uk is running out of oil , as north sea stocks have reached their peak and are now dwindling .
there are many other factors driving the oil market , including geopolitics , speculators and the us market .
indeed , one of the main reasons that the price of oil has been rising is the breakdown of relations between the worlds leading consumer of oil , america , and some of the worlds leading producers of oil .
add to this the influence of speculation on the oil market , the massive expansion of oil consumption in china now the worlds second largest consumer and burgeoning demand in india and its no wonder that opec members are predicting petrol prices could soar .
would a sustained increase in prices trigger die long awaited adoption of alternative fuels and alternative energy technology ?
the answer is yes and no .
to answer the question , you have to divide new technology into what is already or very nearly on sale , such as petrol electric hybrid cars , liquid petroleum gas , bio fuels and diesel , and whats a long way off yet , such as fully synthetic fuels and hydrogen fuel cell power .
certainly there is some reason to suppose that higher pump prices will prompt consumers to search for wallet friendly alternatives , particularly if that does not involve high initial spending .
therefore , we can expect the diesel market currently more than 50 percent of european sales to expand further .
diesel sales in the us might best be described as nascent , but those can be expected to grow as well .
in the uk , liquid petroleum gas and diesel are to maintain their tax friendly status for the next three years at least .
in the long term , the big worry among car makers is that sustained high fuel prices will mean higher interest rates , higher inflation and a worldwide recession .
a recession would delay the development of fuel efficient cars like hondas insight , fords escape 4x4 and toyotas prills .
it would also delay the development of hydrogen power and more heavily refined fuels that could lead to cleaner burning petrol and diesel engines .
i am spending a lot of gms risk capital here says brian mccormick , and higher fuel prices are disheartening on one level , but encouraging on another .
the irony is that us car companies need the revenue from high fuel consumption but profitable vehicles like trucks and suvs to fund the advanced research departments that are working on bringing the first generation of fuel cell vehicles to the showrooms .
these new generation vehicles will run on hydrogen steamed out of natural gas , which is currently the cheapest and most convenient source of the fuel of the future .
the technology is near at hand and we are working on it , says mccormick .
unfortunately governments will need to provide grants and subsidies for the massive investment required for a hydrogen fuel infrastructure , and in a worldwide recession thats not a realistic prospect .
his boss gm director larry burns says , theres concern about the real risk that the high oil price will cause negative growth .
fuel is not going to run out in the near future , but its going to cost you more whatever you drive .
its probably not a good idea to sell your suv right now , but whether you actually need two tons of off road capability is likely to weigh more heavily on your mind in the long term .
too much self help can be bad for your health .
one of the first duties of the physician is to educate the masses not to take medicine , observed william osier , one of the giants of 19th century medicine .
it is a lesson that i as a pill popping member of the public , have learned the hard way .
several years ago , i was given a prescription for an acne medication which worked wonders for my complexion so much so that when the prescription ran out , i kept refilling it , thanks to a friendly neighbourhood pharmacist .
i pride myself on being a fully empowered health care consumer , being well informed keeping up with medical developments is , after all , my job , with a doctorate in immunology , and with enough money and determination to take treatment of minor complaints into my own hands .
in this case , i was also extremely foolish .
after a few months on the medication , i started to experience dizzy spells i dismissed them as overwork , and continued to take the pills .
about a year later , those spells became a curse i awoke one morning to find the world spinning around me .
for a week , 1 lay in a darkened room with my eyes tightly shut every time 1 opened them i would start to vomit doctors have a word for this living hell auditory nerve damage .
thankfully , i recovered , but not without losing my balance for several weeks and becoming permanently deaf in one ear .
there is no proof that my illness was caused by do it yourself doctoring but once 1 stopped taking the pills the dizziness and other side effects ceased .
an experience like that would give anyone a healthy appreciation of the limits to self help .
but these days , people are being encouraged indeed , expected to take personal control of their own bodies .
sticking to a sensible diet , taking regular exercise , and refraining from smoking .
but i wonder about the wisdom of such an approach when it comes to making people better as opposed to merely keeping them well .
on the road to recovery , who should be in the drivers seat doctor or patient ?
certainly there are powerful forces social , political and legal and well as economic that are jostling doctors out of taking full charge of their patients health .
for one thing , professional paternalism is no longer fashionable in western society .
today , your banker , lawyer and above all , your physician is supposed to be an advisor , not an unquestioned authority who single mindedly determines the course of action necessary .
malpractice litigation , especially in america , has pushed the medical profession into shifting much of the responsibility for taking decisions on to the patients themselves .
for another thing , easy access to medical information on the internet and elsewhere is giving patients an illusion of expert knowledge with which to challenge and , increasingly , dictate their doctors decisions .
pharmaceutical companies have been quick to take advantage of this trend .
when a blitz of television commercials encourages viewers to ask your doctor about the latest wonder drug , chances are your doctor will prescribe it for you .
as one american expert on medical ethics has noted , in many branches of medicine , the doctor has become simply a waiter , and the patient a customer ordering from a menu of treatments .
meanwhile , as governments and employers struggle to pay for expensive new medicines , they are trying to move more of the cost of treatment , and therefore more of the responsibility , on to patients .
drug makers have also caught on to this economic trend , switching many of them products from being available only on prescription where doctors and insurance firms control access to becoming available as over the counter remedies that consumers choose and pay for themselves .
the drive to turn patients into self reliant health care consumers needs to be watched carefully for the simple reason that shopping for medical treatment will never be the same as shopping for a flat screen tv .
there is a fundamental inequality in the doctor patient relationship that no amount of education and empowerment can resolve .
you would not try to buy a new car with a complicated lease agreement when feeling like death .
likewise , a sick patient visiting a healthy care giver , will inevitably be entering into a one sided relationship .
this is not to say that public education in health matters should be discouraged .
nor does it mean that people should be dissuaded from doing all that they can to look after themselves .
as the history of aids has shown , informed patients can be a powerful force for change when it comes to improving medical practices .
but this needs to be part of a partnership between doctors and patients , not a substitute for it .
its many peoples favorite vice , but if the latest evidence is to be believed , the last thing you should feel when you secretly tuck into a hunk of chocolate is guilty .
scientists have revealed that eating chocolate , in reasonable amounts , makes you feel emotionally better and so improves the smooth running of your bodys endorphins .
it even protects against heart disease .
researchers at harvard university in the us studied 8000 men and found that those who ate modest amounts of chocolate up to three times a month lived almost a year longer than those who did not eat any .
they concluded that this is likely to be due to the fact that cocoa contains anti oxidants called polyphenols , also found in red wine , which prevent the oxidation of harmful cholesterol .
antioxidants are also known to protect against cancer .
this is thought to be because it contains valeric acid , which is a relaxant and tranquilliser .
also , the sugar in chocolate may reduce stress sugar has been shown to have a calming and pain relieving effect on babies and animals because sweet tastes activate the opiate like substances in our brain .
there are a number of scientific reasons for this .
the smell of chocolate has been found to slow down brain waves , making us feel calm .
most of the time our brains are dominated by beta waves , the normal waking frequency .
when our brain activity slows to alpha waves , we experience a pleasant feeling of calm but alert relaxation .
also , because most of us find eating chocolate so pleasurable , we release endorphins in the brain .
these have similar pharmacological actions to morphine , acting as pain relievers and giving us a sense of well being .
although many teenagers blame chocolate for their acne , theres no scientific data to confirm this link .
scientists at missouri university even gave spot prone subjects chocolate to eat and observed their skin for the next week , with no effect .
chocolate could boost concentration .
this can occur , for example , if you eat it mid afternoon , when blood sugar levels get a bit low .
chocolate has a reasonably low glycaemic index gl , which means it gives long lasting energy because it does not raise blood sugar too quickly .
for example , a typical bar of chocolate has a gi of 70 , compared with 73 for a bowl of cornflakes .
this means a chocolate bar will keep you going for longer .
also , chocolate is a good source of chromium , which helps control blood sugar because it is involved in making glucose available in the body .
this means it is good for those who are lactose intolerant .
researchers at rhode island university have shown that cocoa stimulates activity of the enzyme lactase in the intestine .
we need this to digest lactose , the sugar found in milk .
lactose intolerant patients showed a reduction in bloating , cramping and diarrhoea when one and a half teaspoons of cocoa were added to a cup of milk .
this could be because it contains cannabinoid like substances that are known to affect the hypothalamus , the part of the brain that controls hunger .
this is not ideal if you are on a diet but , for those who need to put on weight or who are convalescing , chocolate could be just what you need to help you get your appetite back .
it contains a stimulant called theobromine , a caffeine like substance that is thought to make us more alert .
but theobromine does not have the side effect of making us nervous , like caffeine , and chocolate contains only minute amounts of caffeine a mug of coffee has about 85 mg compared with just 1 mg in three squares of chocolate .
a 50 gram bar of plain chocolate contains 12mg of iron , and 45mg of magnesium .
milk chocolate is a reasonable source of calcium a 50g bar contains 110mg .
however , wed need to eat about seven bars to get the recommended daily allowances of these minerals .
a hurricane is a tropical cyclone , an area of intense low pressure in the tropics surrounded by a violent rotating storm .
it is called a hurricane in the north atlantic .
the northeast pacific east of lll dateline , and the south pacific ocean east , west of the dateline it is called a typhoon .
and in the indian ocean , a cyclone .
it becomes a hurricane officially if its wind speeds reach 75 mph , or force 12 on the beaufort scale .
below that it is a tropical storm .
every year there are about 100 tropical storms and about 50 of them reach hurricane strength .
the name comes from hurican , the carib god of evil .
overshadowed by the alps , the austrian town of rattenberg receives no direct sunlight now villagers hope giant mirrors will end their eternal gloom .
it is midday in the west austrian village of rattenberg and bright blue skies tower overhead , but the inhabitants of the town are squinting in an unworldly twilight .
the cause is the stadtb rg , a 2650 ft limestone mountain covered in dense pine forest that stands to the immediate south of the village and completely blocks the low winter sun as it tracks from east to west along the length of the village .
from mid november to mid february the village sits permanently in shadow .
the result is an all pervading seasonal gloom that rattenbergs leaders argue strikes down its citizens with winter depression and threatens their economic future by driving inhabitants and tourists away .
even at the end of march the effects of the stadtbergs shadow can still be felt , casting parts of the village into half light .
to harness the power of the sun to create one of its very own .
for 370 years , rattenberg has built its reputation and wealth on 30 the production of crystal glass .
now it is hoped that another type of glass will banish the winter twilight and revive rattenbergs pride and fortune mirrors .
thirty computer controlled 8ft square reflectors , or heliostats , will be placed half a mile to the north of the village in the town of kramsach .
the hi tech mirrors , precision engineered to ensure they are completely flat and thus reflect the light accurately , will bounce the sun rays back to another array of reflectors .
the second set of mirrors will be fixed to the remains of a 17th century fort overlooking rattenberg from the slopes of the stadtberg .
these mirrors will direct the sunshine into the village at a dozen strategic points , bathing the village in winter sunshine for the first time since the 1100s .
helmar zangerl , the joint managing director of the bartenbach light laboratory , a private academy specialising in illumination allied to the university of innsbruck , can barely contain his fervour .
the principle is very simple to take the sunshine from where it is plentiful into a place where it is not using a material we have had for millennia , of course the practice is more difficult , but this project will have massive psychological benefit by giving people sunshine when they have learnt not to expect it .
at the moment , people are moving away from rattenberg because they can no longer stand the winter shadow .
they complain of depressive illness and the tourists do not want to come in winter .
this project has the potential to change all of that , i can see bus loads of japanese tourists queuing to see the sun in the city where there is no sun .
the scheme was drawn up after rattenbergs leaders conducted a survey in 2003 asking what improvements could be made to village life .
the predominant issue , placed top by nearly 60 per cent of the population , was the lack of winter sun .
one in five of rattenbergs inhabitants suffer from seasonal affective disorder sad , the syndrome created by a shortage of sunlight which provokes anything from a bad mood to full blown depression .
opinion on rattenbergs impressive main street confirms the pervading sense of solar deprivation .
i think it is a brilliant idea , it is iconic that we rely on this magic of light and glass for our living but we spend a large part of the year longing to see sunlight .
franz wurzenrainer , rattenbergs mayor said that the need to overcome the sunshine problem and reinvigorate the economic life of the village is increasingly urgent .
while up to 3000 tourists a day flow through rattenberg in high season , the number falls to almost zero during the winter , creating a knock on effect for the shops reliant on the tourists for the sale of their crystal .
the permanent population has fallen by 10 per cent in recent years with people moving to neighbouring communes in search of the sun .
with an ageing population and a birth rate of just five babies a year , the authorities are desperate to attract young families .
while most are overwhelmingly in favour of the idea , the citizens of rattenberg are learning that there are problems associated with the project .
the 2 million euro cost of the mirrors could push the village into bankruptcy unless they obtain european union funding .
concerns have been raised that the glare from the mirrors will blind motorists travelling along the motorway between the reflectors and rattenberg .
the designers at bartenbach reject these concerns , insisting the effect of looking at the mirrors will be no more than looking at the winter sun and naturally averting the eyes .
there is also controversy about the effect of placing the mirrors on the sides of the fort , a historic monument .
but the greatest difficulties are technical .
scientists have stressed that the mirrors will by no means bathe the entire village in light .
to do so would require mirrors covering a space four times the size of rattenberg .
dr peter erhard , the towns doctor said that while he deals with patients suffering from sad , he believes the rate is not higher than in austrias major cities .
of course it would be nice to have a little more light in our city it has a lot of dark corners .
people complain of the lack of sun but i can not see the justification for the project on medical grounds .
the doctor added that other issues , such as a plan to shut down a regional court house , which provides 50 jobs , were likely to have a more detrimental effect on rattenbergs sense of well being .
there is nothing wrong with this dream of mirrors .
but there are other problems here we need to deal with .
it feels like a continuation of an old joke that if we want to get more sunshine , all we have to do is move the mountain .
lt has captured our imagination and that of a lot of people elsewhere .
i have had calls from australia and canada .
after all , how many places on earth can claim to have their own second sun ?
advice for managers on how to cope with the pressures of work .
non managers are used to taking orders .
whether they are blue collar workers on a production line or travelling sales people who spend most of their time away from the office they are on the receiving end of orders which they themselves must action .
there is no additional stratum to which they can delegate the order sometimes their job allows virtually no discretion , as with the production line workers , and sometimes autonomy is encouraged and expected .
however , in the final analysis , at this level in an organization you are on the receiving end of orders and , generally , do what is expected of you authority is , on the whole , accepted without question .
at the end of the line , they are dunked in a solution of calcium ascorbate and then deposited into little green bags featuring a jogging ronald mcdonald .
from there , the bags make their way in refrigerated trucks to refrigerated containers in cavernous distribution centers , and then to thousands of mcdonalds restaurants up and down the eastern seaboard .
no more than 14 days after leaving the plant , the fruit will take the place of french fries in some childs happy meal .
the apple slices , called apple dippers , are a symbol of how mcdonalds is trying to offer healthier food to its customers and to answer the many critics who contend that most of its menu is of poor nutritional quality .
mcdonalds has also introduced premium salads , in caesar , california cobb and bacon ranch varieties , a lineup that will soon be joined by a salad of grapes , walnuts and , of course , apples .
it remains to be seen whether these new offerings will assuage the concerns of public health officials and other critics of mcdonalds highly processed fat and calorie laden sandwiches , drinks and fries .
so far , they have not at least not entirely .
just as its staple burger and fries meals have made mcdonalds the largest single buyer of beef and potatoes in the country , its new focus on fresh fruits and vegetables is making the company a major player in the 80 billion american produce industry .
the potential impact goes beyond dollars and cents .
some people believe that mcdonalds could influence not only the volume , variety and prices of fruit and produce in the nation but also how they are grown .
the company now buys more fresh apples than any other restaurant or food service operation , by far .
this year , it expects to buy 54 million pounds of fresh apples about 135 million individual pieces of fruit .
that is up from zero apples just two years ago this does not include fruit used to make juice and pies , which use a different quality of apple .
mcdonalds is also among the top five food service buyers of grape tomatoes and spring mix lettuce a combination of greens like arugula , radicchio and fris e .
the boom has been so big and so fast that growers of other produce , like carrots and oranges , are scrambling for a piece of the action .
of course , other fast food chains have similar salads and fruit choices on their menus , but they have not had a comparable influence on the market because of their smaller size .
burger king , for example , has 7600 restaurants in the united states , while wendys has 5900 and arbys has 3300 mcdonalds has 13700 .
while salads have been offered at mcdonalds in some form or another since the late 1980s , this is the first time they have been big sellers .
and apple dippers are the first fruit the chain has sold that did not reside between two layers of pie crust .
missa bay , the company that runs the swedesboro plant one of six mcdonalds apple slicing facilities around the country could not be happier about that .
mcdonalds is really pioneering the concept of ready to eat sliced apples , said sal tedesco , the chief operating officer of missa bay , which built the new production line specifically to process apple slices for mcdonalds .
in a few months , missa bay , owned by ready pac produce of irwindale , calif , will also be supplying roughly one quarter of the 13700 restaurants with sliced green apples for the new fruit salad , which is scheduled to be introduced in may .
mr tedesco said that these two items would increase missa bays revenue by at least 10 percent this year .
with those kinds of numbers comes power .
just as the enormous size of mcdonalds once helped the company turn the nations beef , chicken and potato industries into highly mechanized , consistent , efficient and low cost businesses , mcdonalds is using its purchasing decisions to build a reliable supply of fresh fruits and vegetables that meet its exacting specifications .
at the us apple associations annual marketing conference in chicago last summer , mitch smith , the mcdonalds director of quality systems in the united states , told a crowd of growers , many from the big apple producing states of washington and new york , that if they wanted to work with mcdonalds , they should grow more cameo and pink lady apples .
historically , growers have produced relatively few apples of these varieties , but mcdonalds likes them for their crispness and flavor .
already , cameo production in washington state is up 58 percent in the current crop year from a year earlier , according to the yakima valley growers shippers association .
eventually , a bigger supply of certain varieties will drive prices down , which will be good for mcdonalds .
but right now , the companys huge presence in the market is keeping prices high .
james r cranney jr , vice president of the apple association , said that mcdonalds was one of the reasons that apple prices had not declined this year , despite favorable growing conditions that produced an abundant crop .
when you have got such a big buyer like that its going to keep the prices from falling , mr cranney said .
if the new power that mcdonalds exerts over the produce industry ends up reducing prices and squeezing margins , he said , it would be a trade off that many growers and processors seem willing to accept .
apple consumption has been flat over the past 10 to 15 years , he said .
this is exactly what the apple industry needs because we think its going to increase consumption .
organic vegetables , organic bread , organic toothpaste the word has been used as a kind of talisman to ward off the evils of consumer societies in which so many things , from what people eat to the homes they live in , have become mass produced , unsettling and even unhealthy .
organic architecture is an equally loose term , yet it conveys an idea of buildings designed to grow naturally from the ground they stand on .
it conjures too the idea of buildings that are made of natural materials , that seem somehow to belong in a way that classical temples never do .
it also conveys the idea of buildings that make a play on natural forms and employ geometries that have little to do with euclid and mathematical perfection , as well as suggesting buildings that are designed to be wide open to the elements .
in extreme cases , as with the work of antoni gaudi , buildings really do seem to be plants or animals growing naturally out of the ground rather than being projected unnaturally into the sky .
as we swell toward nine billion in the next half a century , humanity will undergo historic changes in the balance between young and old , rich and poor , urban and rural .
our choices now and in the years ahead will determine how well we cope with our coming of age .
in the short term our planet can provide room and food , at least at subsistence level , for 50 percent more people than are alive now because humans are already growing enough cereal grains to feed 10 billion people a vegetarian diet .
but as demographer sociologist kingsley davis observed .
in 1991 , there is no country in the world in which people are satisfied with having barely enough to eat .
